>>L<<English (United States)
Chapter I Farewell, Archaic Lord
Act I: Of the Land Amidst Monoliths
Part 1: Rite of Descension
In the land of Liyue by the sea, a city sits atop the solid bedrock.
That city is Liyue Harbor, and it has flourished under the protection of its guardian Morax — also known as "<QEN1>Rex Lapis,<QEN1>" the Geo Archon you have been looking for.
You could not have arrived at a more fortuitous time, as the annual "<QEN1>Rite of Descension<QEN1>" has just begun.
Every year on this day, Rex Lapis graces this land with his prophecy, giving guidance on the economic path Liyue should follow in the coming year.
(At Liyue Harbor)
Paimon: If you wanna find the Geo Archon, this is the only chance you'll get all year.
Paimon: Guess it's a good thing Venti brought it up earlier, otherwise we definitely would've missed this year's Rite of Descension.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you know when it is?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you know where it is?
Paimon: Uhh... might be today, might also be tomorrow...
Paimon: Look, we're already in Liyue so let's go ask some of the locals.
Paimon: Oh, right.
About the Geo Archon, "<QEN1>Morax<QEN1>"...
Paimon: Did you know? The Mora that we use is named after this god.
Paimon: But it's seen as impolite for people from outside Liyue to refer to the Geo Archon by that name.
Paimon: So we should refer to the Geo Archon by the name Rex Lapis, like the people of Liyue do.
(Talk to Guanhai)
Guanhai: Oh! Are you also visitors here for the Rite of Descension?
Guanhai: To think I've lived in Liyue all these years and never come to see this before.
Guanhai: I guess it's like they say.Locals never visit the tourist spots.
Guanhai: I wish you well on your travels! Liyue always welcomes you!
Guanhai: Hmm...You're not at all close.Not to mention that if I gave you directions, as outlanders, you'd get lost along the way.
Guanhai: So better to head to Yujing Terrace, to the high ground.
Guanhai: It's the highest place in the harbor — sounds like the best place for trying to communicate with deities, no?
(If Guanhai is the last local spoken to)
Paimon: Thanks!So we wanna know where to go if we wanna see the Rite of Descension?
(Talk to Linlang)
Linlang: Rite of Descension...
Oh yeah, that reminds me, isn't that today?
Linlang: Once a year, Rex Lapis bestows upon us his divine prediction, guiding us on how to run Liyue for the coming year.
Linlang: Last year it was the Yuheng of the Liyue Qixing that was given the honor of asking for the divine prediction.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Liyue Qixing?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Yuheng?
Paimon: Ooh! Paimon knows this one!
Paimon: Mondstadt is to freedom as Liyue is to contracts. Liyue has a strong focus on business and trade.
Paimon: The Liyue Qixing — the seven leaders of the seven enterprises of Liyue — hold true control over Liyue.
Linlang: That's what outlanders always say.
Linlang: But true control over Liyue will always be held by Rex Lapis.
Linlang: The Qixing is comprised of mere mortals. Rex Lapis is a god.
Mondstadt's god is nowhere to be seen, whilst our god is forever with us.
Linlang: Stay in Liyue long enough and you'll see...
Linlang: Given that you just left your godless city, it's time you experienced what it's like to be in a city whose god has walked with it through all of history.
Paimon: Great! Then we can start our experience off with the Rite of Descension.
Linlang: Good choice. Then get going. To the high ground.
(Talk to Bolai)
Bolai: You too wish to bear witness to the Rite of Descension? Me, too! We all do!
Bolai: As a businessman myself, how could I not take interest in Liyue's most important business trends?
Bolai: The seventeen predictions given last year made more than a few ripples throughout the industry.
Bolai: What's more, there has been a rumor going around that the Tianquan herself, Ningguang, has been acting secretly in the shadows...
Bolai: She wants the rocks created by Geo Vision holders to be exempt from taxation.
Paimon: Wow... that's some super professional legal stuff that is!
Bolai: Haha. To be on the pulse of the predictions and the market is what makes this harbor what it is.
Bolai: Among The Seven, Rex Lapis is the oldest deity.
Bolai: His keen sense of strategy is well trusted among his people.
Bolai: Understanding the predictions as soon as possible can make all the difference in making your fortune!
Paimon: F—Fortune! So where can we see this Rite of Descension anyway?
Bolai: Hmm... You're not at all close. Not to mention that if I gave you directions, as outlanders, you'd get lost along the way.
Bolai: So better to head to Yujing Terrace, to the high ground.
Bolai: It's the highest place in the harbor — sounds like the best place for trying to communicate with deities, no?
(At Yujing Terrace)
Paimon: Paimon heard that the best time to make a wish is today, during the Rite of Descension.
(‍Traveler‍), wanna give it a try?
Ivanovich: Your first time in Liyue?
Actually, it's my first time to see the Rite of Descension too.
Ivanovich: Ah, look!
Ivanovich: Only those who have control in Liyue can preside over the Rite of Descension.
Ivanovich: Oh yeah, not sure if you knew, but most of the adepti appear in the form of various beasts.
Ivanovich: I heard that when attending these kinds of formal occasions, Rex Lapis himself appears as a celestial cross between two of Liyue's ancient mythical creatures.
Ivanovich: ...Sorry, I shouldn't interrupt your wish.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I wish I could get some leads from the Geo Archon.
Paimon: Great! Now that we're all done with the wishing, guess we can just wait here for things to get started.
Paimon: Hmm, who knows how long that Ms. Ningguang lady is gonna take.
(Approach the crowd)
You and Paimon wait for the Rite of Descension to begin.
Paimon: Wha...
What's going on!?
Paimon: Did she just say Rex Lapis is...
Paimon: The Geo Archon... is... DEAD!?
Paimon: Oh no, the Millelith! Looks like they're nabbing suspects who got too close.
Paimon: Paimon's freaking out. The killer is amongst us!
Paimon: Wait... we got close... are we suspects!?
Paimon: Wait, where are you going?
Icon Dialogue Talk White (It was a god we faced off against when we arrived in this world too...)
Icon Dialogue Talk White (We can't fall into their hands...)
(Escape from the Millelith)
Paimon: Oh no...
(‍Traveler‍), there's a whole bunch of soldiers out there too!
Paimon: Your identity... You may not be the killer, but we can't let them get you!
Paimon: But... can we even get out of here safely?
Paimon: *panting* Phew...Paimon's exhausted...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm even more beat.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Just what muscles does magical floating use exactly?
Paimon: So insensitive! You have no idea just how tiring floating arou— Wait!
Paimon: Just who are you exactly?
???: Call me Childe.
Paimon: Childe? What, so we're supposed to dote on you?
Childe: Haha, no no, not at all. It's an alias of sorts.
Childe: In Mondstadt, I don't suppose you came across a "<QEN1>Signora<QEN1>" by any chance?
Paimon: Signora...
Paimon: You're Fatui!
One of the Harbingers!
Childe: Oh, no. Don't worry, I'm not looking for a fight.
Childe: Signora gave you quite the bad impression huh? Tsk, that woman...
Can't say I'm a fan either.
Childe: Right, let's forget all about her, shall we? I'm here to help you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Help?
Childe: Yes. Help.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I don't need help from the Fatui.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Go.
Childe: I'm not a bad guy... Okay perhaps I'm kind of a bad guy, but I'm not here to give you any trouble.
Childe: Would it be too much to ask for you to keep the sword sheathed?
Childe: Haha, I thank you for your knightly nobility, Traveler.
Childe: I heard of your deeds in Mondstadt, so I couldn't help but notice you during the proceedings back there.
Childe: And because I had my eye on you the whole time, I know it wasn't you. Someone else was clearly behind it.
Childe: But...
regrettably, given I'm a Fatui envoy from Snezhnaya...
there's no way I'd be trusted after something of this magnitude.
Childe: The ruling Qixing of Liyue has always been overly suspicious of us.
Childe: Hahaha. Guess I shouldn't try to deny that.
Childe: Okay, sure. Maintaining a distance between strangers is probably a good idea. Either way, I'm already used to it at this stage.
Childe: But right now, if you want to clear yourselves of any suspicion — you need to get yourselves to Northland Bank.
Childe: Staying here isn't an option.
As the old Liyue saying goes: "<QEN1>The walls have ears.<QEN1>"
(At the Northland Bank)
Paimon: Northland Bank...
Childe: Correct. This bank was opened here in Liyue by Snezhnaya.
Childe: Though everyone knows Liyue is the most enterprising in Teyvat, Snezhnaya is not short of change either.
Paimon: Yeah well, poorer nations don't seem the type to have diplomats that come around acting the way yours do towards the Knights of Favonius.
Childe: Eh-hehehehe...
Childe: Here, let me give you this.
Paimon: This is a...
Childe: I'm not sure, exactly. Sometimes, all money can buy is "<QEN1>things<QEN1>" and not a name for oneself.
Childe: All I know is that it's a sigil. A sigil to keep the "<QEN1>mighty and illuminated adepti<QEN1>" from bringing harm to you.
Paimon: Adepti?
Childe: If you head north from the harbor, then west from Guili Plains, you will eventually reach a stone forest known an Jueyun Karst.
Childe: The people of Liyue believe it to be the abode of the adepti.
Icon Dialogue Talk White They really believe that?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Isn't it just a legend?
Childe: Legend or not, they believe it. As such, offerings to the adepti are made at its borders. Nobody dares venture in.
Childe: But I have no need for believing — not when I know for a fact that the adepti truly exist.
Paimon: Hate to admit it but your Fatui intel seems alright.
But, why would we go looking for adepti anyway?
Childe: Ha, oh my little friend. There are plenty of reasons mortals seek the blessings of adepti.
Childe: Money, health, love... But you... you will go for justice.
Paimon: Justice?
Childe: The Qixing will already have dispatched the Millelith. They'll be seeking out the assassin from amongst the onlookers.
Childe: But how could a mere mortal kill a god that can sweep aside entire armies? Rex Lapis never gave up his power as a god.
Childe: This level of crude response is beyond what is called for. How suspicious...
Icon Dialogue Talk White You think they're trying to hide the true culprit?
Childe: Or... to hide something else. Hard to say.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You think the Qixing did it and they're trying to pin it on someone else?
Childe: Even now, the Northland Bank wouldn't be able to hold the Millelith off for long, but the adepti can clear you of any wrongdoing.
Childe: Liyue was founded by the Geo Archon and the adepti — of course, it was built by force.
Childe: Look for them. And be faster than the Qixing's messengers, so you may give your version of events first.
Childe: If there is anyone that can help you in Liyue now, it can only be the mighty and illuminated adepti.
Part 2: An Impromptu Change of Plan
During the rite, the appointed moment arrived.
Yet when the clouds parted, a divine carcass crashed down to earth, knocking all the offerings over.
Amid the chaos and confusion, the Qixing ordered that the assassin be arrested.
Unable to prove your innocence, you were forced to accept the help of Childe of the Fatui, and as suggested by him, you are now headed for Jueyun Karst, a hidden abode where the adepti dwell...
(At Jueyun Karst)
???: And who might we be? Those that dare enter Jueyun Karst?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I was sent here.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Please take a look at this.
???: A Sigil of Permission... Many a season has passed since one was last in the presence of such an item.
Moon Carver: He before you is the mighty and illuminated adeptus, Moon Carver. Speak, traveler. What business have you here?
Paimon: Actually...
Millelith Sergeant: It's the assassin! They dared to flee here to Jueyun Karst!
Millelith Soldier: Sir, we've already stepped too far into Jueyun Karst ourselves...
Millelith Sergeant: We... Argh, there's no choice. Apprehending the assassin is top priority, we must press on!
Moon Carver: ...disturbing our borders.
Moon Carver: See them gone. One will not have interruption.
(After defeating the Millelith guards)
Moon Carver: We've digressed. State your purpose, traveler.
Paimon: Well...
You tell Moon Carver what happened at Yujing Terrace...
Moon Carver: Preposterous...
Moon Carver: PREPOSTEROUS!!!
Moon Carver: The Liyue Qixing...
utterly disappointing.
Moon Carver: How could someone possibly assassinate Rex Lapis during the Rite of Descension...
Moon Carver: And then place suspicion upon the attendees!?
Moon Carver: ...
Moon Carver: Traveler, of the unjust accusations placed upon you, one has become aware.
Moon Carver: The mind knows its answer.
Though one must consult with one's fellows, lest the mind be misguided.
Moon Carver: Go.
Take your Sigil of Permission, carry with you a message.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Who should I look for?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Where should I go?
Moon Carver: Mountain Shaper and Cloud Retainer can be found here. Only fate will decide if you shall find them — only fate.
Moon Carver: There exists a Conqueror of Demons, a Guardian Yaksha. Go to Wangshu Inn. There you shall seek him.
Part 3: Wangsu
You came across an adeptus, "<QEN1>Moon Carver.<QEN1>" Seeing the keepsake you bore, he lent you his aid and protected you from the Millelith soldiers pursuing you.
Upon learning of Rex Lapis' passing and the unjust accusations laid against you, Moon Carver expressed disdain for the Qixing's actions and began to suspect that they were behind what happened.
He has sent you to find several other adepti and deliver a message to them.
(At Wangshu Inn)
Paimon: Oh, this seems to be Wangshu Inn.
Paimon: Compared to Jueyun Karst this place seems basic. Are we really gonna find an adeptus here?
Paimon: Let's take a look. Paimon reckons he'll be on the balcony. Heh, doubt we're going to find him in the kitchen.
Xiao: A Sigil of Permission? You came prepared.
Xiao: Though this only prevents me from hurting you myself. Doesn't stop you from getting hurt in other ways.
Paimon: Uhh... Paimon doesn't get it...
Xiao: Too much contact with our world is breaking the rules.
Xiao: Mortal souls are not as robust as those of adepti, nor can your blood carry this level of adeptal energy.
Xiao: It's for your own good. Leave. Now.
Paimon: Wait a sec, we came here to...
Paimon: Argh!Paimon's... peeved!All he does is think about himself!
Paimon: Paimon wants to give him an ugly nickname... but if you tick off an adeptus, the only thing you'll probably ever find in treasure chests is cabbages! Bleurgh!
Paimon: Ugh... Guess we should go ask the boss lady of the inn about just how she manages to talk to adepti.
(Talking to Verr Goldet, Boss of Wangshu Inn)
Icon Dialogue Quest Tell me about that adeptus
Verr Goldet: Oh? You've already met Xiao?
Verr Goldet: Not bad. Not often he's in a good enough mood to agree to see people.
Paimon: That's his good mood?
Verr Goldet: Oh yes, the adepti are very hard to come by. Many people go their whole lives praying to them, never once actually getting to see one.
Verr Goldet: When the Geo Archon built Liyue, he borrowed power from the adepti.
Verr Goldet: But most of them only know how to protect Liyue by fighting.
Verr Goldet: So for many millennia, it has instead been humans who have led Liyue, whilst the adepti have lived hidden away on the outskirts.
Paimon: You really know a lot, huh boss lady.
Verr Goldet: It's not "<QEN1>boss lady,<QEN1>" it's just boss...
Verr Goldet: Anyway, seen as you have the favor of the adepti, things should be a lot easier.
Verr Goldet: Well... If you wanna know my opinion...
If you keep Xiao in a good mood, things should be okay.
Can't really imagine what a "<QEN1>good mood<QEN1>" looks like for that "<QEN1>Vigilant Yaksha.<QEN1>"
Verr Goldet: Haha! Will be interesting, won't it?
Verr Goldet: (Come to think of it, I've never seen him smile either...)
Verr Goldet: How 'bout this — you go see the chef for a bowl of Almond Tofu, and a plate of whatever it is you are best at making.
Verr Goldet: Almond Tofu is one of the few human foods Xiao likes. The other dish is up to you.
Paimon: Up to us, eh...?
Traveler, what do you think you're the best at cooking?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Satisfying Salad I guess?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Perhaps a Maha Manjusaka Hot Pyro Slime?
Paimon: Really hard to screw that one up, right?
(Talking to Smiley Yanxiao, the chef of Wangshu Inn)
Smiley Yanxiao: Can't you see I'm on a break kid? Scram.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Excuse me, we'd like an Almond To—
Smiley Yanxiao: Scram!
Paimon: Whoa, this chef guy's service is about as good as that Wagner guy's back in Mondstadt.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's for the boss, Goldet.
Smiley Yanxiao: ...
Smiley Yanxiao: I see.
If it's for the boss, then guess I don't have a choice now, do I?
Smiley Yanxiao: But my heart's not really in it right now, not enough to make a dessert as painstaking as Almond Tofu.
Paimon: And why is that?
Smiley Yanxiao: A fencer's hand must be steady, so too must the hand of a chef.
Smiley Yanxiao: But my hands, I'm...
they're not steady...
Smiley Yanxiao: Because ahh, a traveler once told me that this inn...
is haunted.
Smiley Yanxiao: And then, just now — just now! In the kitchen... I saw something... something not right.
Paimon: (This chef looks so intimidating, but speak of ghosts and he becomes weak.)
Smiley Yanxiao: I keep thinking... even Wangshu Inn isn't safe. I—I can't keep a steady hand for something like Almond Tofu.
Paimon: Alright (‍Traveler‍).
In the name of high-quality Almond Tofu, we need to go check this kitchen out.
(Talking to Smiley Yanxiao again)
(At the inn's kitchen)
Paimon: Doesn't seem to be anyth—
Paimon: ...
Paimon: ...
Paimon: #@&%*!
(Returning to Yanxiao)
Smiley Yanxiao: What!? You saw it too! There really is a ghost!
Smiley Yanxiao: What... How can I...
Paimon: Okay, so he's useless now. What do we do?
Paimon: Forget it. Let's just go see the boss lady again.
(Talking to Verr Goldet)
Verr Goldet: Hehe...Hard to believe he was once a notorious bandit.
Paimon: You don't seem that afraid of ghosts, boss lady.
Verr Goldet: Gods and ghosts, I've seen it all before.
Paimon: Come to think of it, others don't seem to know there's an adeptus here at the inn, except for the boss lady...
Verr Goldet: Shh!
Verr Goldet: Say any more and you'll be divulging my little secret.
Verr Goldet: Right. Best you two be off.
Go see to it that little ghost doesn't go scaring anybody else.
Verr Goldet: Not that I'm ordering you around. It's like the adeptus said, mortal souls are not as robust as those of the adepti.
Verr Goldet: So as to not be harmed when dealing with the adepti, you can start by practicing with that ghost.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Sounds good.
Paimon: But how should we persuade the ghost?
Icon Dialogue Talk White But how should we persuade the ghost?
Verr Goldet: There is a calligraphy painting in the inn known as the Witness Sigil. It's been in circulation for over a thousand years. Go take a look at it.
Verr Goldet: Once you have, look for a place outside where you can see the exact same Witness Sigil formation.
(Upon viewing the Witness Sigil in the rocks you see the ghost of the girl running away)
Paimon: Th—There she is! So scary... (‍Traveler‍), quick, you... you grab her.
Paimon: We have to follow her.
If it's as the boss lady said, she won't disappear like last time!
(Following her south of the inn, the ghost possesses a Ruin Hunter and becomes hostile)
Paimon: Argh! She doesn't know when to give up!
Paimon: This old, decrepit Ruin Guard...
Surely it's not... possessed!?
(After defeating the possessed Ruin Hunter)
Dusky Ming: ♪ Silly-churl, billy-churl ♪...
Paimon: Phew... Finally caught you. Paimon's pooped.
Dusky Ming: ♪ Silly-billy hilichurl ♪ ...
Paimon: Haunting things isn't nice! Little girl, are you listening?
Dusky Ming: ♪ Chilly-churl, frilly-churl ♪ ...
Paimon: Now listen here young lady!
Dusky Ming: ...
Dusky Ming: Okay.
Dusky Ming: Dusky Ming won't tease the travelers at the inn anymore.
Dusky Ming: Next time (‍Traveler‍) can come play with Dusky Ming.
Dusky Ming: If you don't come and play, Dusky Ming will come find you~
(After explaining Yanxiao about the ghost's promise)
Smiley Yanxiao: Wh-What [sic]...You really got the ghost to promise to stop haunting the inn?
Smiley Yanxiao: Wow... You really are something...
Smiley Yanxiao: I am in your debt.
Smiley Yanxiao: Please wait a moment. I'll make you the smoothest, silkiest bowl of Almond Tofu.
Smiley Yanxiao: Haha, my hands are steadier than ever now that she's gone.
(Talking to Xiao)
Xiao: ...
You two again.
Paimon: Wait! Don't go disappearing again.
Xiao: What's this?
Paimon: It's your favorite, Almond Tofu! As well as this distant traveler's best dish — a Satisfying Salad.
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍)! Quick! Tell him everything before he finishes eating!
Xiao: Rex Lapis... How could this be?
Xiao: I... can't imagine it.
Though times have changed, I've never imagined a Liyue without him.
Xiao: The ruling Qixing...
Just what role have they played in this?
Xiao: ...
Xiao: I will seek Moon Carver, Mountain Shaper, and Cloud Retainer.
It is time they too made their decisions.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Will the adepti take over his role in Liyue?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Will the adepti interrogate the Qixing?
Xiao: Adepti do not turn on their responsibilities.
Xiao: I have my reasons to not want to be tainted by the mortal realm, but... responsibilities are responsibilities.
Xiao: Our god is the God of Contracts after all.
Paimon: Wait! Paimon still has one last question.
Xiao: Hmm?
Paimon: That... Dusky Ming. She's...
Xiao: When conquering demons, on occasion, you can come across spirits who have never hurt anyone, yet are also not yet able to be moved on.
Xiao: So I asked the innkeeper and the boss if they could keep her here for a time.
Paimon: So really, Wangshu Inn was looking after her! Really keeping a wide range of business going, huh!
Part 4: Moulder of Mountains
Following the instructions of Moon Carver, you arrive at Mt. Hulao in order to meet with Mountain Shaper.
(Interact with the large talisman at the top of Mt. Hulao, optional)
Mysterious Barrier: (Jueyun Karst is where the adepti dwell, so perhaps this is the abode of one.
Li Ding: Have mercy, O mighty adeptus! I beg you... Show mercy upon me and my brother... Spare our lives!
Icon Dialogue Talk White What's wrong?
Li Ding: Who are you? What's going on?
Paimon: We asked you first!
Li Ding: ...Oh! You enjoy safe passage in Jueyun Karst... It can only mean one thing!
Li Ding: You must be adepti messengers!
Sent here to rescue me and my brother!
Paimon: What is he talking about?
Li Ding: ...Oh, have mercy, mighty messengers of the illuminated adepti! I beg you to save us... My brother and I, we only came here because our family is poor, and we heard tell of treasures hidden in the amber of Mt. Hulao.
Li Ding: It was stupid of us... but all we wanted to do was find enough treasure to sell and support our family...
Li Ding: We followed the path up the mountain, but suddenly, the amber... it swallowed up my brother, Li Dang!
Li Ding: I ran away, and made it this far before it dawned on me: We were trespassers in the abode of the adepti, and this was our punishment...
Li Ding: I had no idea how to rescue my brother, so I just started praying for the adepti to have mercy, right here on the spot.
And now, at long last, two messengers come to my aid...
Paimon: What? We're not adepti messengers... We just wanna find the adepti, like everyone else!
Li Ding: No no no, you must be messengers... You have to be!
Li Ding: I have no idea which amber trapped him... Please, you have to rescue him! I beg you, show me some adepti mercy!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Oh, fine. I'll go have a look...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Of your transgressions, your predicament, and your repentance, one has become aware.
Li Ding: Thank you, thank you!O mighty messengers of the illuminated adepti, I promise that we will never be so foolish again...
Paimon: Paimon was gonna ask him about where to find the adeptus, but... he seems pretty one-track-mind about rescuing his brother right now.
So, he said that Li Dang got trapped in amber somewhere on Mt. Hulao, and that they were following the path the whole way up.
Paimon: So, let's follow the path down from here, and make sure to be on the lookout for amber on the way.
Li Dang: *coughing*
Li Dang: Wh–What happened? ...Y–You rescued me? Thank you...
Li Dang: Oh! And have you seen my brother? His name is Li Ding, we were climbing the mountain together.
Li Dang: I just hope he didn't get trapped in amber too...
Icon Dialogue Talk White He's the one who sent us looking for you.
Li Dang: Phew... so he's safe then...?
Icon Dialogue Talk White He's at the top of the mountain.
Li Dang: Thank you! I will head up to find my brother now.
Li Dang: Here's hoping I don't run into any more amber on the way...
Li Ding: Thank you for rescuing my brother, O mighty messengers of the illuminated adepti.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Have you ever seen the adeptus here?
Li Ding: What? No... I mean, like everyone else, we've heard that there's an adeptus living in Mt. Hulao.
Li Ding: But regular folks like us would never have the chance to meet them. No way.
Li Ding: Unlike you guys... You're adepti messengers, so it's a whole different story.
Li Ding: Anyway, we have trespassed in the realm of the adeptus for long enough. We should get going.
Thank you, mighty adepti messengers...
Paimon: ...Boy, it'd be super helpful if we actually were adepti messengers.
Paimon: 'Cause it seems like this adeptus has got a real temper problem...
Paimon: But it's not like we've done anything wrong, so... hopefully we'll be okay... hehe...
Mountain Shaper: Who dares trespass on my mountain? Who is it that frees the thief from his incarceration?
Mountain Shaper: Foolish mortal, come forth and receive your punishment at once!
(Talk to Mountain Shaper)
Mountain Shaper: ...You intrude upon the sanctity of Mt. Hulao, you destroy the amber of my mountain, and you free a thief whose freedom is not yours to give.
Mountain Shaper: The thieves' ignorance was an affront to the adepti... but your actions are an abomination of the highest order!
Paimon: Wait! We can explain...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Here, look at this...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Moon Carver sent us...
Mountain Shaper: ...A Sigil of Permission? One was unaware that such things still exist in the mortal realm.
Mountain Shaper: In the beginning, Rex Lapis cast them for the mortals with his own hand.Few were made then, and thousands of years on, fewer still remain...
Mountain Shaper: Speak.One shall listen to the matter which brings you here, then one shall verify the truth thereof.
Mountain Shaper: You would be wise to speak the truth, for Liyue is not so far from here that one would be easily deceived.
You explain what happened in Liyue Harbor.
Mountain Shaper: Rex Lapis... Assassinated?
Mountain Shaper: At the Rite of Descension!?
Mountain Shaper: What mortal in Liyue– nay, in all the world, would conspire to commit such foul treason? Or perhaps the more pertinent question is, what power in this world could aspire to achieve it?
Mountain Shaper: Rex Lapis charged the adepti with the protection of Liyue, and we have always honored this duty. As the people have prospered, so have we gradually withdrawn into the mountains. Indeed, this was a gesture of good will towards humanity.
Mountain Shaper: But now... Alas! Rex Lapis, gone...
Mountain Shaper: Traveler, of the matter you have relayed, one has become aware. One now knows why Moon Carver has sent for us.
Mountain Shaper: Once one has dealt with certain matters here that require my attention, one shall convene with the other adepti.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Can someone explain the amber situation to me?
Paimon: Paimon can! Adepti always have magical powers in storybooks, seems it's true in real life too.
Paimon: You know, like how grass is actually adepti hair, and rivers are actually adepti saliva... There must be something similar going on with the amber.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So is rain... adepti tears?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Amber must be crystallized adepti... ew, gross.
Mountain Shaper: ...Your nonsense knows no bounds. This amber is produced by a flower that one has planted here, called the karst crawler.
Mountain Shaper: The majority of the plant is hidden underground. When stepped on, it produces amber to trap the invader.
Mountain Shaper: After taking up residence here, one planted many karst crawlers to ensure that the tranquility of the mountain would remain undisturbed.Over the years, they have helped to prevent many disturbances, but in the process they have also trapped many curious things...
Paimon: Oh, so the amber is... alive?
Mountain Shaper: Correct. Thus, one may not leave this place in its current state, for fear of the risk to innocent lives in one's absence.
Mountain Shaper: One will depart as soon as one has attended to this matter. One trusts that the manner of your departure will be swifter in nature.
Part 5: Custodian of Clouds
Following Moon Carver's instructions, you arrive at Mt. Aocang in order to seek out Cloud Retainer.
Paimon: Hey, who put this table here?They've even set it ready for dinner, there's a wine jug and everything...
Paimon: Ooh, they even have the guests' names carved into the seats!"<QEN1>Here sits Retainer...<QEN1>"
Paimon: "<QEN1>Here sits Guizhong...<QEN1>""<QEN1>Here sits Rex...<QEN1>"
Paimon: Maybe "<QEN1>Rex<QEN1>" is short for "<QEN1>Rex Lapis<QEN1>"?But Paimon has no idea about "<QEN1>Guizhong.<QEN1>"
Paimon: As for "<QEN1>Retainer,<QEN1>" hmm... That's it! When Moon Carver was going through the names of his adepti buddies, he said there was one called "<QEN1>Cloud Retainer.<QEN1>"
Paimon: So, this must be where Cloud Retainer and the other adepti have their dinner parties!
Paimon: Hehe, how about we cook up some extra-special dishes for the adepti? We're sure to get Cloud Retainer's attention that way!
Paimon: But... What do adepti even eat, anyway? Paimon has no idea...
Paimon: Hmm, people must make offerings here all the time. Guess all we can do is look around the area for any leftovers, maybe that'll give us some ideas.
Paimon: Do you think maybe it's at all possible that the adepti might like to try some... Sticky Honey Roast?
(Examine traces of cooking at northwestern pot)
Paimon: Someone has definitely cooked here before. D'you think they were making an offering?
Paimon: Looks like they didn't use all the ingredients. Let's see here... we got some Snapdragon, some Lotus Heads, some Tofu... Whatever they were cooking, it sounds complicated!
Paimon: Hey, look over there... They left some notes, too.
Paimon: Yep, it's a doozy!Paimon's not surprised they had to write it all down, it's a lot to remember... We should read it carefully.
(After offering the dishes and entering the domain)
Cloud Retainer: One senses the presence of a Sigil of Permission...
Cloud Retainer: One knows not why you have come, though the sincerity of your offering is clear... Hence, you shall be granted an opportunity.
Cloud Retainer: Find your way through mine abode, and you shall receive an audience with the adeptus whom you seek.
(After activating the first mechanism)
Paimon: Look, that platform is moving!
Paimon: So that's what this button is for...
(At the end of the domain)
Cloud Retainer: One is most impressed. The path that leads through this abode defies those of ordinary abilities.
Cloud Retainer: The one before you is the adeptus, Cloud Retainer. Now, speak of the matter which brings you here.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Did you build this whole place?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Did you design all those mechanisms?
Cloud Retainer: You surmise correctly. This place did oneself build, as did one design the mechanisms within.
Cloud Retainer: In fact, even Guizhong and Rex Lapis themselves found one's technological accomplishments to be worthy of commendation.
Paimon: This place is huge! And there are so many mechanisms... Do you really have this whole place to yourself?
Paimon: What's it even for? Did you build it as your private mechanism workshop or something?
Paimon: It's just like the stories say.The adepti leave the human world, find somewhere to go be a hermit, and then they research and invent all these amazing things...
Cloud Retainer: One is simply not partial to the tedium of social interaction, and wished to find some peace and quiet.
Cloud Retainer: Find it one did...Shortly after which, you arrived bearing your Sigil of Permission...
Cloud Retainer: But enough! State the matter which brings you here, at once! You have disturbed the tranquility of this place for long enough.
Cloud Retainer: Rex Lapis... Assassinated!?
Cloud Retainer: How can this be!? Such a heinous crime... Who would dare?
Cloud Retainer: The notion is so preposterous as to be unbelievable... one shall have to verify the truth of the matter independently...
Cloud Retainer: ...Perhaps one shall quash Liyue first, then convene with the other adepti–
Icon Dialogue Talk White ...Excuse me!?
Paimon: Wait, what!? Did you just say "<QEN1>squash Liyue Harbor<QEN1>"? Are you seriously gonna wipe out the whole city?
Cloud Retainer: Only a response of sufficient magnitude can negate the possibility of further incidents.
Icon Dialogue Talk White But the adepti are sworn to protect the city...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Aren't you supposed to protect the people there?
Cloud Retainer: It is as you say.We have protected Liyue Harbor under the leadership of Rex Lapis for 37 centuries.But in the face of this coup by nefarious actors... exceptional measures must be taken.
Paimon: Yikes! Quick, you gotta think of something! She wants to squash Liyue flat, and it doesn't seem like she's bluffing!
Icon Dialogue Talk White You accepted our offering, that makes this a contract.
Paimon: Exactly what Paimon was gonna say! We made all that delicious food, and gave every last bit of it to you!
Paimon: We were hoping you might help Liyue out... not wipe Liyue out!
Paimon: ...Or at least let's... y'know, discuss it first? Can't hurt for you to get a second opinion.
Cloud Retainer: "<QEN1>Contract...<QEN1>" A cruel irony that you should appeal to the notion after the merciless murder of the God of Contracts himself.
Cloud Retainer: The people of Liyue seem quite content to dispense with their contracts. They are quite adept at taking that which is composed of black and white, and turning it gray...
Cloud Retainer: Nevertheless... Since you come here in the name of contracts, far be it from one to abandon one's own contractual obligations.
Cloud Retainer: Least of all when you come bearing a Sigil of Permission... *sigh* Rex Lapis infused these sigils with adeptal power when he first cast them. That power once aided humans in battle.
Cloud Retainer: Most of the sigil's power has long since worn off... It is but a keepsake now.
Cloud Retainer: This keepsake cannot be taken as proof of your trustworthiness. One must investigate the claims that you make independently.
Cloud Retainer: This, no doubt, is Moon Carver's very reason for summoning us.
Cloud Retainer: Your audience with the adeptus before you is now concluded.Leave at once, and disturb me no further.
Part 6: Dust to Dust
Having sought out the adepti and completed the task Moon Carver entrusted to you, you return again to Liyue Harbor to look for Childe.
He tells you that the Liyue Qixing's response to the archon's passing has given him some food for thought...
(Talking to Childe)
Childe: You've finally returned.How was your journey to Jueyun Karst?
Childe: ...I see.
Childe: Moon Carver, Mountain Shaper, Cloud Retainer, Conqueror of Demons...
Childe: Some of these names have never come up in the intel the Fatui gets hold of.
Childe: As a returning gift, I too have information for you.
Childe: Regarding the archon's passing...The Liyue Qixing's response really has given me food for thought...
Childe: They've announced that, as the true killer has not yet been found, they are not allowing anyone to pay their respects to the Exuvia.
Childe: They've even gone so far as to try and cut off information...But with the Rite of Descension and all, even the Qixing isn't able to keep a lid on things.
Paimon: Exuvia?
Childe: It's common knowledge in Liyue that Rex Lapis is also an adeptus.
Childe: The Geo Archon is also the God of Contracts, and is also known as the Exuvia, Prime of the Adepti.
Childe: The mighty and illuminated adepti of today all signed contracts to protect Liyue back then.
Paimon: Guess that explains why they're all so focused on Liyue's well-being.
Childe: Naturally.They both have the responsibility and the aptitude for the job.
Childe: If the ruling Qixing became unable to perform their duty properly, the adepti have the right to take corrective action.
Childe: The Geo Archon's spirit has risen, so why would the Qixing hide his vessel!?Truly suspicious.
Icon Dialogue Talk White This makes things difficult for me too.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I agree, something is definitely not right.
Paimon: Oh!Right!He's the whole reason we came here!
Paimon: If the Liyue Qixing has locked up Exuvia and won't let anyone near...
Paimon: Then (Traveler's) quest to find The Seven is already over!
Childe: Oh?You're trying to find The Seven?And just why might that be, pray tell?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Nothing to do with you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White No comment.
Childe: Heh... nice answer.
Childe: A knight that gets duped by the Fatui would really be no knight at all now, would they?
Childe: But, I can help you with that too you know.
Paimon: Hmm?Really?
Childe: Give me some time.
Childe: Time... to find someone.
Childe: Someone who can help you break through this stalemate.
Childe: Truly fascinating.The harder they try to silence the situation, the greater the chaos that erupts...
Childe: If you want to be around to see it all come crashing down, best you stay alive until we next meet, yes?
Act II - Farewell, Archaic Lord
Part 1: An Organization Known as Wangsheng
Upon your return from visiting the Adepti, you discover that the Qixing have hidden the Geo Archon's vessel away.
Childe promised he'd find someone to break the stalemate, so you pay another visit to Northland Bank.
(Talk to Ekaterina inside the Northland Bank)
Ekaterina: Welcome, Traveler, friend of Childe. And congratulations on the first day of your illustrious career with the Fatui.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I don't consider Childe a friend.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I have no intention of joining the Fatui.
Ekaterina: You sound remarkably sure of yourself... Remember, we are mere mortals — our ideas are fluid like water. Only the Tsaritsa truly has a will as solid as the permafrost.
Ekaterina: But back to the matter at hand. Childe tells me that he has upheld his end of your agreement.
Paimon: What agreement? Oh, the thing about him helping us find a guy?
Ekaterina: Correct. Childe promised he would find someone to break the stalemate. And the Harbingers do not break their promises lightly.
Paimon: Ah. Where is that guy, anyway?
Ekaterina: Childe is currently at Liuli Pavilion.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Liuli Pavilion?
Paimon: Ooh, ooh Paimon knows this one!
Paimon: *clears throat* There are two styles of cooking in Liyue, known as Li style and Yue style. They have been competing for centuries, but neither has emerged as the clear winner.
Paimon: The flagship restaurant of the Li style is the Liuli Pavilion. The owner especially chose to open the restaurant at Feiyun Slope, so they could compete face-to-face with the Xinyue Kiosk, which is the flagship restaurant of the Yue style.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Trust you to only know these sorts of things...
Icon Dialogue Talk White You're like this every time we talk about food...
Paimon: Don't talk to Paimon like that! Anyway, Paimon's hungry. Let's get moving.
(Talk to Ekaterina again)
(Talk to Childe outside Liuli Pavilion)
Childe: Aha, you made it.
Childe: As promised, I have found someone who can help you. Someone who can solve the mystery of why the Liyue Qixing would hide the Geo Archon's vessel.
Paimon: So where is he? In Liuli Pavilion?
Childe: He certainly is. Come, I'll introduce you.
Childe: I took the liberty of setting up a business dinner, as per the Liyue custom.
(Traveler, Paimon and Childe go towards the entrance of the Liuli Pavilion)
Hongru: Welcome back, sir. You honor us with your patronage.
Hongru: Mr. Zhongli is awaiting your arrival in the room you booked.
(Inside the Liuli Pavilion)
Childe: Allow me to introduce Mr. Zhongli, consultant to an organization known as Wangsheng... and a trusted associate of the Fatui.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Associate of the Fatui?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Wangsheng?
Childe: Indeed. Wangsheng's line of work can be... sensitive at times. Let's just say they understand when discretion is needed.
Childe: And we, the Fatui, have always been glad to do business with friends who walk in the shadows.
Paimon: W–Walk in the shadows?
Zhongli: It is an honor to meet you.
I have heard tell of you from Mondstadt.
Paimon: Discretion... shadows... Ah! Is Wangsheng some kind of business involving... "<QEN1>dealing<QEN1>" with people?
Zhongli: Indeed, it is as you have guessed.
Paimon: Ahh—!
Zhongli: The Wangsheng Funeral Parlor organizes burials. We ensure that those who pass on do so in peace.
Paimon: Eh?
Childe: Haha, did you think he was some sort of hired killer?
Childe: The Fatui calls many such people friends, but the Wangsheng Funeral Parlor does no dabble in such business... well, ostensibly.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ostensibly...
Childe: Well, they are still— Ah, I shouldn't say too much. In any case, I brought you to meet Mr. Zhongli because...
Zhongli: Because I can bring you to see Rex Lapis' vessel.
Paimon: What!?
Childe: Ha, don't be so surprised. Sure, the Geo Archon's body has been squirreled away by order of the Tianquan Ningguang... but first, let's hear what Mr. Zhongli has to say, shall we?
Zhongli: Rex Lapis may be the Prime of Adepti, but he is ultimately an adeptus. Many adepti have left us over the millennia — this is the inexorable trend.
Zhongli: The times have changed — you must have felt it too when you were at Jueyun Karst.
Icon Dialogue Talk White That's true. The adepti are staying away from Liyue.
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Geo Archon is also an adeptus?
Zhongli: Archons go by many names. The God of Contracts, the God of Commerce, the Warrior God, Morax, Rex Lapis... is the idea that he also has the title of Adeptus so strange?
Zhongli: As you have seen, the time of the adepti is ending, and the time of mankind is slowly dawning.
Zhongli: In years past, Liyue's tradition was that a huge memorial service be held to mark the passing of every adeptus. But this time, the Qixing have made no attempt whatsoever to respect this tradition. It is sacrilege.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Well, they do have a deicide to deal with...
Paimon: Yeah, the killer hasn't even been caught yet.
Zhongli: Deicide or not, the concern of the Wangsheng Funeral Parlor is this: When the ritual to receive this god is so kingly, it is all the more egregious for his final send-off to go unattended to.
Zhongli: Traveler, Childe has told me a lot about you.
Since you have had dealings with the Anemo Archon, could I ask you to help me prepare the Geo Archon's last rites?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm going to have to think about it...
Paimon: Well, if you think about it, (‍Traveler‍), we don't have any other choice...
Childe: Indeed, no amount of consideration can change this outcome.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I accept your invitation...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Childe says too much.
Childe: The Tianquan, Ningguang, has forbidden anyone from accessing Rex Lapis' vessel... Which of course you would need to access if you are to achieve your goal of meeting all of The Seven.
Zhongli: Precisely. Only by participating in the Rite of Parting will you be able to see the form of Rex Lapis again.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Looks like there's no other choice.
Zhongli: If we are agreed, come with me. We will speak of the details as we walk.
Childe: Alright, my bridge-building work here is done. Turned out well, didn't it?
Childe: You can go if you want to, don't worry about me. I might just have a few more drinks... and get acquainted with these things they call "<QEN1>chopsticks<QEN1>" in the meantime.
(Speak to Childe again)
Childe: My... chopsticks... truly are difficult to use...
(Talk to Zhongli outside Liuli Pavilion)
Zhongli: After having experienced the land of the absentee archon, Traveler, how does it feel to know that our archon and adepti are here all around you in Liyue?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I prefer the atmosphere in Mondstadt.
Zhongli: I see, so you're that sort of person. It's not a bad thing.
Zhongli: But I suppose you have yet to experience the substance of Liyue's three thousand and seven hundred years of divinity.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Liyue is the better place.
Zhongli: Indeed. The weight of three thousand and seven hundred years' worth of history runs deepest in the true divinity of Liyue.
Zhongli: Organizing the Rite of Parting should prove to be an enlightening part of your travels.
Zhongli: Liyue is the most prosperous of the seven nations, defended by deities and ruled by the Qixing.
As such, the diplomatic maneuverings of the Fatui have gained no purchase here.
Zhongli: Ningguang of the Qixing has always been on her guard against the Fatui. That is in all likelihood why Childe wants to make use of the Wangsheng Funeral Parlor's connections.
Paimon: Huh... what would Childe get out of us doing the Rite of Parting anyway?
Zhongli: I neither know nor do I wish to know. As far as I am concerned, the Fatui are merely financial sponsors. I only wish for Liyue's traditions to endure.
Zhongli: These are the advance funds that Childe has provided. If you use them up, you can go to him to apply for any subsequent funding.
Paimon: Wow...
Zhongli: Well then, let us be off.
The first step in our preparations shall be to obtain some prize Noctilucous Jade worthy of a deity.
Part 2: Moonfinger
Childe introduced you to Zhongli, a consultant at Wangsheng Funeral Parlor.
You agree to help Zhongli organize the Rite of Parting in the hope of seeing the Geo Archon again.
(Talk to Shitou)
Shitou: Welcome to the Jade Mystery, my good friends! Would you like to try your luck betting on jade? This could be your lucky day.
Shitou: It's cheap and it's fun, and who knows, you might just strike it rich!
Paimon: Betting? No, no, we're here for... um, what was it again?
Zhongli: Noctilucous Jade, of radiant grade at the very least.
Shitou: Radiant grade Noctilucous Jade? I see, you're not a tourist. My apologies. I have some here for your perusal...
Shitou: What do you think? The Jade Mystery is an old name in the jade business. Just look at that wonderful quality! Rex Lapis doesn't often bless us with such finery. Go on, pick whichever one you like!
Paimon: These three pieces really do look pretty, not like the ones you usually dig up...
Paimon: But how do we pick? Should we just grab one and go?
Icon Dialogue Talk White A man who makes his living off betting on stones can't be trusted so lightly.
Zhongli: Very good. It seems you have learned some tricks of the trade.
Paimon: What do you think, Mr. Zhongli? How should we pick from these pieces of Noctilucous Jade?
Icon Dialogue Talk White What do you think, Mr. Zhongli?
Zhongli: Oh? You want me to decide? That is fine as well.
Zhongli: If it were me, the answer would be simple.
Paimon: Oh? And that would be...?
Zhongli: I'll take them all, boss.
Shitou: Oh, you act with such panache, good sir! I always knew you were not a man of ordinary caliber!
Paimon: Wait! Wait! Boss, that one didn't count! We need to discuss it again!
(Talking to Zhongli in private)
Paimon: Hey! If we only need one for the ritual, aren't we wasting three times the Mora if we buy them all!?
Icon Dialogue Talk White That's true.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Actually, it's two times more Mora.
Zhongli: Oh, Mora. Hmm...
Zhongli: It is as you say. I suppose I overlooked this particular aspect of the transaction.
Paimon: Huh? How do you not think about Mora when buying things!?
Zhongli: If one must always consider Mora before acting, then in all things one is bound by Mora.
Paimon: Ahh... What?
Zhongli: All Mora is currency, but not all currency is Mora.
Paimon: ???
Icon Dialogue Talk White He's talking about economics.
Paimon: Is this how the rich live?
Paimon: Well, he knows a lot about big money, but not a lot about big savings.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Sounds like he's loaded.
Paimon: So loaded that he doesn't even bother hunting for a bargain.
Zhongli: No need to waver. Even when I am constrained by Mora, I have ways of working around my limitations.
Zhongli: Evaluating the quality of Noctilucous Jade is indeed very tricky. As crude ore, there is little difference in texture, lustrousness, and internal pattern between good and bad jade.
Zhongli: Only after the item made using Noctilucous Jade has taken shape, will you be able to see whether it is up to par or not.
Zhongli: If you return to those crafty merchants to quibble, they will counter by saying that your crafting bench is to blame, or that your heat control was poor.
Paimon: Whoa! To think it's that easy to get cheated...
Zhongli: But there is a way to truly evaluate this jade, and a true insider would know it.
Zhongli: "<QEN1>A fool sees the pointer and misses the moon.<QEN1>"
Paimon: What does that mean?
Zhongli: If you point at the moon with your finger, a wise man knows that you are pointing at the moon, while a fool will only see the finger.
Zhongli: The patterns, the facade, these are all the "<QEN1>finger.<QEN1>"
Noctilucous Jade is a mystical stone used to light up the darkness, and so its brightness is the most important thing — it is the "<QEN1>moon.<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Noctilucous Jade of excellent quality would have superior Pyro affinity.
In other words, the bluer and brighter the luster of the ore under high temperature, the higher its quality.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I didn't realize you were such an expert...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Is this normal life for a high-class gentleman?
Zhongli: I have imparted the priceless secrets of the jade trade to you. Now all that's left is to put it into practice.
Paimon: Priceless, huh... Paimon's just sad that we might never be able to use it again...
(Talking again to Shitou)
Paimon: We're back to buy some rocks, boss. But can you let us burn them first?
Shitou: B—Burn them? You can't do that, my friends! If you were to do so, what would I have to sell?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Then, can we get some small samples?
Shitou: That... Well, fine. As you wish, then.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Then I'm not buying any.
Shitou: Not buying...? Ah, come, come now, my good friends... we can still discuss this. Negotiation is key to trade, wouldn't you say?
Shitou: How about this? I can take a small sample of all three. I'll take a bit of a loss — we'll count it as a friendly gesture.
Zhongli: Don't worry, I know the rules. As long as we can prove that it is good jade, you will not take a loss.
Shitou: Alright. I've carved them off with a knife and tagged them to boot.
Take these as samples.
Icon Dialogue Talk White These samples...
Icon Dialogue Talk White So thin...
Paimon: ...Aren't these too thin?
Paimon: Even paper's thicker.
No, even a bug's wings are thicker! These are almost see-through!
Icon Dialogue Talk White How stingy...
Shitou: Stingy? I've already been very generous. Any more, and you may as well have my neck!
Icon Dialogue Talk White This is impressive handiwork.
Shitou: Hahaha. You flatter me, but I have to be gentle with these rocks. They are my pride and joy!
Shitou: If I'd taken off even a bit more, it would have killed me.
Paimon: But wouldn't something this thin go poof if we held it to the fire?
Zhongli: It can't be helped. Trying to deprive a merchant of his profits would be like forcing a ravenous wolf to vomit up the food in its stomach. Nonetheless, under the right conditions, these thin slices will serve.
Paimon: What sort of conditions?
Zhongli: While we add the high temperatures using Pyro, we can use Hydro to reinforce it from within. This way, the samples will not disintegrate immediately.
Shitou: Oh? Oh, sir, to think you were this learned... Thank you for your understanding!
Zhongli: Strictly speaking, asking for samples when we have not yet agreed to purchase the goods is unfair. Trade in Liyue must be based upon fairness.
Paimon: Well, guess we just need to find a place to try this out...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I remember this spot in the Dadaupa Gorge...
Icon Dialogue Talk White How about the kitchen at Xiangling's place...
Paimon: You mean at Wanmin Restaurant? As long as we do it when she's not in...
Zhongli: That would not do. It is a place where people come and go. They would be endangered if the elemental reaction were to get out of control... We cannot take such a risk.
Paimon: Ooh! Paimon remembers! We once saw this biiiiig pot down at the Dadaupa Gorge, in the camp of the hilichurls from the Meaty Tribe! It's real sturdy, and should be able to take the elemental reactions!
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍), now, let's pack those samples up and make a move!
(Talk to Shitou again)
Shitou: How is it? Anywhere near reaching a decision?
(After entering Dadaupa Gorge region)
Zhongli: It has been a long time since I last set foot in the nation of wind.
Zhongli: A friend of mine from Mondstadt would always bring a few bottles of locally brewed dandelion wine whenever he came to visit me in Liyue.
Zhongli: It must be said that the famed liquor of the Land of Pastorals is far better than Sumeru's frigid snake wine.
Paimon: That's the pot! It looks like the hilichurls are still using it.
Paimon: It's a bit impolite, but we gotta cut the line.
(After defeating the hilichurls and approaching the pot)
Paimon: There's still soup in here. These hilichurls sure have big appetites!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Well, it's our lab now.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Shame to let it go to waste...
Paimon: This soup looks like it could be used as our Hydro elemental protection. Let's fire it up and begin our experiment!
(You place the samples into the pot)
Paimon: We're ready to go! Paimon will help remember which one of the three is which!
Paimon: Use Pyro to keep making the pot hotter, until we get the results we need.
Paimon: Mr. Zhongli said that the shinier and bluer the ore gets, the better it is, so pay close attention!
(After heating up the first sample, more hilichurls spawn)
Paimon: Whoa! That light came from the first Noctilucous Jade!
Paimon: Hilichurls are surrounding us again! Were they attracted by the light?
Paimon: Such nosy neighbors! Let's take care of them and continue again after!
(After heating up the second sample, more hilichurls spawn)
Paimon: That light came from the second Noctilucous Jade, didn't it?
Paimon: More hilichurls! They don't give up, do they?
Paimon: Looks like they're mad that we ruined their food.
(After heating up the third sample)
Paimon: Ow! That's bright! Too bright! That was the third Noctilucous Jade, wasn't it?
Paimon: It was so much shinier than the rest. Let's go with that one!
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍), let's head back to The Jade Mystery to buy some jade, shall we?
(Return to Liyue Harbor and talk to Shitou)
Shitou: You're back, my friends! I've kept the goods for you. Which of them would you like?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I would like the first Noctilucous Jade.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I would like the second Noctilucous Jade.
Paimon: Huh? No, it wasn't that one, Paimon remembers that it wasn't very bright.
Paimon: Think a bit harder...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I would like the third Noctilucous Jade.
Paimon: Exactly, that's the one Paimon remembers too!
Shitou: No problem. If you have your eye on this one, you can have it.
Zhongli: Then we'll take a box of the third type of jade.
Shitou: Done!
Shitou: All the same...Pardon me for asking, but I'm curious. Whatever do you need this much top-quality Noctilucous Jade for?
Zhongli: Hmm. I suppose it would not hurt to tell you. We need them to make implements for the Rite of Parting.
Shitou: Parting...!? Oh dear... I'd heard the rumors but hadn't given much thought to them. This... this means that Rex Lapis really is...
Shitou: ...It's hard to believe. Even though the Jade Mystery has been in decline, we have always been under his protection.
Shitou: It is said that when our Lord lost his way while going incognito in the city two hundred years ago, it was a spoon from The Jade Mystery that he had used to sample the local delights.
Shitou: Alas, alas, all things must pass... Well, if this is to be used to say farewell to Rex Lapis, then I shall sell this to you at half the price.
Paimon: Are you sure? You didn't wanna even give us an inch before...
Shitou: If not for our Lord's protection, this city wouldn't exist as it does now. No proprietor could earn money off such a thing.
Paimon: Aww... I'm sure Rex Lapis will feel your sentiment, boss.
Zhongli: In the safe hands of the Liyue Qixing and good, honest merchants such as yourself, I, for one, believe that Liyue will continue to prosper as it always has done.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So let's not get ourselves down just yet.
Shitou: Alright... thank you, my friends. Hah, what's with me, getting all sentimental like this? I'll practically be giving away all my fortune at this rate.
Zhongli: Now that we've made our choice, let's take this Noctilucous Jade back.
Paimon: Hey, wait a minute! He said it was half price, not that we could leave without paying!
Zhongli: Oh, right, I'm sorry. I must have forgotten to do that too. Let me see...
Zhongli: ...As I thought, I didn't bring any.
Paimon: Any what?
Zhongli: Mora. My apologies, another oversight on my part.
Icon Dialogue Talk White What a strange take on the value of money...
Icon Dialogue Talk White A local of Liyue who doesn't have money on their mind...
Paimon: That won't do, this isn't some small sum... Oh wait, didn't Childe give us some advance funds earlier?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I have them on me.
Paimon: That's a relief. Have a look, boss, is it enough?
Shitou: It's fine, just enough for half price... though to be honest, it'd be alright even if the sum wasn't quite enough.
Zhongli: Well, it's settled, then. Let's take this jade to Yujing Terrace. That's where we plan to hold the Rite...
Paimon: Look at you, bossing everyone around! You didn't cough up a single Mora!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Please remember to bring money next time.
Zhongli: I will do my best. You have my thanks.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Guess we need to find Childe for more funding.
Zhongli: Mm, it seems that we must. I will keep that in mind. Thanks, both of you.
Shitou: Ah... Rex Lapis... Rex Lapis...
(After putting the Noctilucous Jade in place)
Zhongli: We can leave the jade here. 
I have already called for a jewelsmith to shape them into the implements that we will need.
Zhongli: Ah, yes. I have yet to go and see Childe. So as for the jewelsmith's remuneration...
Icon Dialogue Talk White We'll pay the jewelsmith when he arrives.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Fingers crossed Childe will reimburse us...
Paimon: Guess we can't do anything else. Also, is this where we're doing the Rite of Parting?
I have already rented this location, and have begun making preparations for the rite.
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Rite of Descension took place here, too.
Zhongli: That's right. The Liyue Qixing have acquiesced to using the same location.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So we're just using the scene of the crime to...
Zhongli: The Liyue Qixing have agreed to this arrangement.
Paimon: But when something this big happened here... should suspects like us really be at the crime scene? We might get caught by the Millelith.
Paimon: Although with that said, since we got back from Jueyun Karst, none of those pesky Millelith soldiers have come chasing after us. Wonder what that's about...
Paimon: Also, the, uh, Rex Lapis' vessel...
Zhongli: Traditionally, we call it the Exuvia.
Paimon: Ah, right. That's what it was called! You seem to know everything, Mr. Zhongli. Um, so, was this Exuvia hidden away by the Qixing? I mean, we haven't even figured out who the murderer is...
Zhongli: One must think that they already have someone in mind. Or perhaps they already know. Surely they must have found all the evidence that there is to find here.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It still feels very odd.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Seems a bit too easy-going...
Zhongli: These things are for the authorities in Yujing Terrace to consider. Trying to help would probably only add to their troubles.
Zhongli: Before the Rite is conducted, the Exuvia will be kept temporarily in the Golden House.
Paimon: Golden House?
Zhongli: The only mint in Liyue... which is to say the only mint in Teyvat. All the Mora that flows throughout the world is minted there.
Paimon: Wow—
Paimon: No, Paimon wasn't thinking about anything bad. Paimon thinks it suits Morax.
Paimon: But why do you know this, Mr. Zhongli?
Zhongli: Since the Rite of Parting has the approval of the Qixing, it is a semi-official event. As such, there is already some limited information available.
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Qixing provide the location, and Childe the funds...
Icon Dialogue Talk White They must have some ulterior motive...
Zhongli: Perhaps each has their motives... but this is the capital of commerce. A little exploitation once in a while is not unacceptable.
Zhongli: In Liyue, where the God of Contracts reigns, only contracts may not be betrayed.
I for one have no issue with little maneuvers outside their remit.
Zhongli: Well then, we should go and prepare the perfumes used in the Rite.
Paimon: Perfumes? Where'll we get those? Do we buy them?
Zhongli: No, perfumes used to honor the gods must be freshly decocted. The quality of the Silk Flowers we require is also special.
Zhongli: Silk Flower petals contain a fibrous material of good quality, often used in brocade-making.
Its scent, however, is most elegant, and is especially suited for solemn events like giving offerings to gods and adepti.
Paimon: It's time for Zhongli's lectures on high society again...
Zhongli: We shall not speak of the details right now.
Follow me, we shall go to the merchants to purchase our ingredients.
(Observe the Noctilucous Jade)
Observe the Noctilucous Jade: (Only Noctilucous Jade of radiant grade at the very least is acceptable for use in the Rite of Parting.)
Observe the Noctilucous Jade: (Who'd have thought the hilichurls' cooking pot in Dadaupa Gorge would be a reliable means of assessing the quality...)
Part 3: Three Poignant Perfumes
Zhongli isn't concerned with the deicide itself, but with upholding Liyue's sacred traditions by giving a proper farewell to an archaic lord.
Having selected a suitable batch of Noctilucous Jade, your next task is to prepare some perfumes as an offering to the Geo Archon.
(Talk to Bolai)
Paimon: Hey boss. Do you sell Silk Flowers here?
Bolai: Silk Flowers? We certainly do! Which kind would you like?
Paimon: Which kind...? The, uh... the good kind. The best kind. ...Remind Paimon what kinds there are again?
Bolai: Ugh. You ignorant shoppers, always coming in here with your stupid questions...
Zhongli: Golden House Maiden, Valley Weaver, and Fate's Yearning. One of each to start with, if you don't mind.
Bolai: ...My goodness! This gentleman is quite the connoisseur!
Bolai: You two must be his servants. Please refrain from any further attempts to contribute.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Well, guess I had it coming...
Icon Dialogue Talk White This is what I get for calling Paimon "<QEN1>emergency food.<QEN1>"
Icon Dialogue Talk White Wait... You don't even recognize me!?
Bolai: I'm sorry? Ah, yes... We've met before, haven't we? Sorry, Traveler, I shouldn't have spoken to you in that tone.
Bolai: Now then... Please peruse at your leisure. Do let me know if you have any further thoughts.
Zhongli: Silk Flowers exhibit different properties based on how their environmental conditions differ from their ancestral habitat... Nevertheless, these are fine specimens. Excellently preserved.
Zhongli: Just look at the abundant foliage here. And these stamens, glamorous as a maiden of the Golden House. This strain is an evergreen, and mostly grows under complex hydrological conditions.
Zhongli: By contrast, this variety thrives in any dark, damp location, often in large clusters. Morphologically, it is distinguished by the profusion of petals and densely packed stamens, though its powerful scent gives it away just as easily.
Zhongli: Lastly, this strain is quite the recluse. Unlike its exuberant cousins, flowers and foliage are minimal, and when in season, it has a subtle yet enduring scent. It was first discovered by the ancients when they scaled the mountains in search of the adepti.
Zhongli: Silk Flowers have all but disappeared from the wild today, due to geographical changes over Liyue's history. Most are now grown by horticulturalists.
Bolai: Wow. A true connoisseur. Most of that was news even to me!
Zhongli: I possess but a smattering of trivial knowledge. My traveler friend is the one to watch — they are on track to set foot in every corner of the world.
Icon Dialogue Talk White What's so impressive about that...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm still an ignoramus on horticulture...
Paimon: Mr. Zhongli, you're way too humble... So which Silk Flower did you want, anyway?
Paimon: ...Again!?
Zhongli: How can I put this... When purchasing opera tickets, it is natural to decide based on which singer has the most melodious voice. The same logic applies when purchasing a pet bird.
Zhongli: But this Silk Flower purchase is not an analogous case. The same logic does not apply.
Zhongli: Perhaps you don't know. Tradition states that we should decoct perfume from different sub-species of Silk Flower when making an offering to a Statue of The Seven. Rex Lapis will then make his own choice between the scents.
Zhongli: Like several other tedious and complicated traditions, this one has become simplified over time.
Zhongli: But this is the only Rite of Parting to take place for one of The Seven in three thousand seven hundred years. As such, I do think we should honor tradition down to the last detail in this case.
Zhongli: Now that's settled, a question... Ahem. Do you have any Mora on you?
Paimon: You forgot to bring money again!? Grr, Zhongli!!!
Icon Dialogue Talk White I see a pattern emerging here.
Icon Dialogue Talk White By this point, I'd be more surprised if he'd remembered.
Bolai: If I may interject... Did I hear you say that these flowers are to be an offering to the Lord of Geo himself?
Paimon: Yes... in a sense.
Bolai: Gosh. Well, why didn't you say so? I heard the awful news about what happened at this year's Rite of Descension...
Bolai: It would be bad luck to say it out loud. But I've been worried about our dear Lord ever since... I'm worried that everything I've heard is true...
Bolai: Since these flowers will be used to glorify our Lord, they're free of charge. Just don't forget to pass on my regards.
Paimon: Are you serious?
Bolai: Why wouldn't I be? I would be nobody if not for Rex Lapis!
Bolai: If he hadn't written those poems in praise of my wares, they'd only be worth a fraction of what I can sell them for today...
Paimon: Huh... So much folklore here revolves around Liyue's deity making cameo appearances in support of local businesses...
Zhongli: ...Thank you, boss. I think I speak for all of us when I say that your generosity has saved our skins.
Paimon: "<QEN1>Our<QEN1>" skins? You were the one who forgot to bring money!
Bolai: Please. It's the least I could do.
(Discuss the method for making perfume)
Paimon: So now that we've got the flowers, how do we make the perfume?
Zhongli: Ideally, with the help of an expert. Unfortunately, none of my acquaintances have personal experience in the art of decoction...
Paimon: Talk about first-world problems...
Zhongli: Hence, I need you to help by asking around in the city. Try the common folk, especially women.
Paimon: So this time we get to go around town looking for nice-smelling ladies to talk to? Paimon likes this job!
Zhongli: I will wait for you near the Statue of The Seven. Meet me there when the perfume is ready.
(After the conversation)
Paimon: Maybe we can find some good candidates at the Adventurers' Guild?
Paimon: Let's ask Lan. She's master of the Liyue branch, right?
Paimon: Lan! We need to ask you for a favor...
Lan: I stopped accepting commissions along time ago. Sorry, you two, but you'll just have to ask another adventurer.
Paimon: Oh, it's not that kind of favor. It's just a teeny-tiny thing...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you know how to make perfume?
Lan: ...Wow. Just wow.
Lan: Do I look like the kind of girl who wears perfume to you? I think you're underestimating the kind of person I am...
Icon Dialogue Talk White You smell great.
Lan: I am just going to assume that you are either joking or being sarcastic.
Lan: To be fair, I put a lot of effort into my appearance for someone who spends all their time in the great outdoors. But "<QEN1>I smell great<QEN1>"? Don't be ridiculous.
Paimon: Well, Paimon thinks you smell amazing! So come on Lan, what's your secret? If not perfume?
Lan: Now that you mention it... Yes, there is something. What is that scent?
Lan: Oh, it must be from the Qingxin flowers I picked on the way back. I forgot I still had them with me...
Paimon: Aha! The truth is out, Lan's got a soft spot for wildflowers!
Lan: Ahh... No, they were for medicinal use only.
Lan: Anyway, this is a pointless conversation. If you want to know about perfume, try talking to Qiming.
Paimon: The fortune teller, right? Paimon remembers she smells pretty good!
Paimon: Thanks, Lan! See you around~
(Talk to Lan again)
Lan: Oh?Not going to look for Qiming yet?
(Talk to Qiming)
Qiming: Hello. How may I help?
Paimon: We've come to ask you a question...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you know how to make perfume?
Icon Dialogue Talk White You smell great.
Qiming: Perfume? I rarely think to use it, let alone about how to make it myself.
Qiming: Ah... I...
Qiming: ...Sorry, you caught me off guard. Most people aren't so direct.
Qiming: I think we need more time to get to know each other...
Paimon: Uh... We just wanted to know what perfume you normally use.
Qiming: Oh... Ahem. Well. I don't actually use any.
Qiming: That said, some of the cosmetics I use are scented. Perhaps that's the cause of this confusion.
Qiming: Since I usually set up my stall by the docks, I avoid perfume like the plague. Because Celestia forbid those lusty sailors catch a whiff and come hunting for the source!
Paimon: That's the worst thing Paimon's heard all day.
Qiming: While we're on the subject, have you never heard anyone mention Ying'er's homemade perfume?
Paimon: Ying'er... Oh, as in Scent of Spring Ying'er?
Qiming: Yes, that's her. Many a rich family's daughter has gotten her to make perfume for them. Apparently, her homemade product is better than anything you'll find on the market.
Paimon: Great, this is just the intel we need! Finally, we're getting somewhere.
(Talk to Qiming again)
Qiming: If you have the time, come and have your fortune told down by the harbor. I'll give you a special price.
(Talk to Ying'er)
Ying'er: Well hello... You found me at last. I've been waiting for you.
Paimon: What? How did you know we were coming?
Ying'er: Oh, I heard a rumor about a couple who were snooping around town looking for a sweet-smelling lady...
Ying'er: Actually, I was starting to worry you wouldn't find me. This is the ultimate test of my appeal, after all...
Paimon: "<QEN1>Snooping around<QEN1>"? Why are you making it out like we're bad people?
Ying'er: What can I say? People love to talk... Maybe you ought to be more discreet in the future if you don't want word to get around.
Ying'er: Relax... I know what you're here. You want to get your hands on my homemade perfume, don't you? What kind would you like?
Icon Dialogue Talk White A bespoke triple-Silk-flower variety...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Whichever one you're wearing.
Ying'er: Heh... I'm not wearing any, darling.
Ying'er: Could it be that you've been bewitched by my natural scent? If so, I'm afraid it's one of a kind...
Paimon: Whatever this is, you need to snap out of it right now! (‍Traveler‍), Hand her the Silk Flowers!
Ying'er: Three in one go... My goodness.
Ying'er: You have extreme tastes for someone your age. Maybe the rumors I heard were true after all. You're on the prowl and need some sweet-smelling ammunition, is that it?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's for Rex Lapis.
Ying'er: Tsk... Is that the best you could come up with? Even if you were genuinely offering perfume to a deity, that doesn't explain why you'd need three kinds.
Sorry, you story just doesn't hold water!
Paimon: Zhongli was right... People don't remember this tradition anymore.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You got a problem with that?
Ying'er: Ay yai yai, who let this tiger out of the cage!? Well, with your looks, who can blame you? If you've got it, flaunt it.
Ying'er: As one of my favorite poems goes, "<QEN1>Oh, cherry tree, begrudge not thy blossoms as they are deflowered in the spring, for come winter, even thy sturdiest wood shall wither.<QEN1>"
Paimon: That went over Paimon's head a little...
Ying'er: In short, I'm happy to help. Traveler, you can be my assistant. But you'd better make sure I'm the only person on your mind while you're hanging around with me.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Okay...
Ying'er: So... Where is a good place for making sweet, sweet perfume?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Dadaupa Gorge!
Ying'er: Where is that? Mondstadt? We're only making some perfume, there's not need to go to such ridiculous lengths.
Ying'er: Somewhere closer to home will do. Let's go for the kitchen at the Wanmin Restaurant.
Ying'er: You mean Wanmin Restaurant? Good choice! Let's go.
(Talk to Ying'er at Wanmin Restaurant)
Ying'er: I've had a word with Chef Mao. We can start work now.
Ying'er: Are you ready to please me?
Paimon: ...What did you say?
Ying'er: I meant make me proud. As my assistant. Obviously.
Ying'er: While I'm setting up, you can go and fetch some water.
(Talk to Ying'er again before getting water)
Ying'er: Have you fetched the water? ...No?
Ying'er: Have a look behind Wanmin Restaurant. Chef Mao is a professional chef, he must keep a store of pure water.
(Talk to Ying'er after getting some water)
Ying'er: This water will do nicely.
Ying'er: Now, I need you to extract the Silk Flower essence using a crafting bench.
Ying'er: Perfume-making uses an altogether different technique from alchemy. Here, let me teach you. Very carefully, take hold of the mortar and pestle... Gently does it...
Ying'er: You need to keep your wrist firm so your hand doesn't slip...
Ying'er: Now, use your strong hand to stir it with a persistent rhythm... Keep going until the juices start to come out...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Don't worry, I know what I'm doing.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Okay, okay, I get it...
Ying'er: Ooh... You're a natural! Like a fish to water.
Ying'er: Now, take these and try it out on your own using a nearby crafting bench.
Ying'er: Don't forget to do all three. They look visually identical during the essence extraction process, but I will put them into separate containers when the perfume is ready.
(Talk to Ying'er again before crafting all three)
Ying'er: Well, aren't you going to try it out? Has the crafting bench broken?
Ying'er: Or would you prefer some... hands-on guidance for your first time...?
Ying'er: Wow, this is some exquisite Silk Flower Essence. Onto the next stage, the most important one of all...
Ying'er: The essence is placed into water and simmered over low heat until most of the water has boiled off.
Ying'er: You must take care to control the heat during this process. If the temperature goes too high, it will affect the scent.
Ying'er: So please, focus on controlling the heat. This is the final step.
Ying'er: Don't waste a drop of that essence, now. We want all of it in there.
With a little guidance, you help Ying'er make some perfume.
Ying'er: All three perfumes are ready. And you, my friend, were a wonderful assistant.
Ying'er: A testament to the lengths you will go for romance... It's so rare to see nowadays.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I told you, it's not like that...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I was thinking of you the whole time.
Ying'er: Wow, you actually remembered my throwaway comment...
Ying'er: Y'know, you're cuter than people give you credit for. If I didn't have my guard up, I can see how easily one could be taken in...
Ying'er: Anyway... Shall I give you a brief overview of each scent? It might just help you match the right scent to the right occasion...
Paimon: Paimon wants to hear this!
Ying'er: This first one is sweet as candy, straight out of a fairy tale...
Younger women will love it.
Ying'er: The second one is for those with refined tastes... The first choice for daughters of high society.
Ying'er: Finally, the third one has a soft by lingering scent, like a mist that captures the last light of dusk. Mature women adore this one.
Ying'er: All clear? Don't get them mixed up now, you'll ruin the mood...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I...I think I got it...
Ying'er: Good. Be sure to come visit if you ever need help with anything, okay?
Ying'er: I'll leave you with some parting words:
Ying'er: One who tries to sail three boats simultaneously should be careful not to go overboard.
Icon Dialogue Talk White ...
Ying'er: Heh. Come and hang out with me at Scent of Spring sometime, okay?
(After the conversation)
Paimon: Let's take these three perfumes over to the Statue of the Seven [sic]. Mr. Zhongli's probably been waiting for a while.
Paimon: We've brought the perfumes, Mr. Zhongli!
Paimon: Did we take too long? You were just staring up at the statue...
Zhongli: Oh, you're back. Don't worry, I haven't waited long.
Zhongli: Compared to the watch that Rex Lapis' statues have kept over Liyue, this was but a brief moment.
Paimon: Haha, well, how can a person compete with a statue?
Zhongli: That is true. Well, have you brought the perfumes?
Paimon: Three sets and not one less!
Zhongli: Thank you both. Let us offer them up.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Offer Golden House Maiden
Paimon: This is the first kind of perfume. Ms. Ying'er said that it's sweet as a dream, and it's liked by younger ladies.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Offer Valley Weaver
Paimon: This is the second kind. It's got an elegant smell, and the daughters of high society love it!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Offer Fate's Yearning
Paimon: The third kind has a gentle but lingering fragrance, something something like the dusk mist, and it's a favorite of mature ladies.
Paimon: Oh... what was that?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Looks like Rex Lapis really likes this one.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I guess the final answer is number three.
Paimon: That's the one older ladies like, right?
Paimon: Does that mean that Rex Lapis is actually an older lady?
Zhongli: Haha, perhaps, perhaps.
Zhongli: Rex Lapis has taken on countless forms. Perhaps that really was one of them.
Paimon: What a shame, we only got to see the giant dragon form, and...
Paimon: Let's hope the Qixing can catch the real killer.
Zhongli: We can leave that to the authorities. Let us focus on the fond farewell for Rex Lapis.
Icon Dialogue Talk White (What ulterior motives do Childe and the Qixing have...)
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Well, we do need to see the Exuvia...)
Paimon: So, we've finished another step in our preparations. What's next?
Zhongli: Next, I would like the two of you to help me borrow the Cleansing Bell.
Paimon: Cleansing Bell?
Zhongli: At present, a friend of mine named Madame Ping is the guardian of the Cleansing Bell. She lives near Yujing Terrace. If you ask her, she will know what to do.
Paimon: Sure, but... aren't you going to come with us?
Zhongli: Ah, I have certain reasons why I cannot be there in person.
Please do this for me.
Paimon: Man, why's he got to be so secretive this time?
(Talk to Zhongli again)
Zhongli: I apologize, but I won't be able to come with you this time.
Zhongli: Once you've acquired the Cleansing Bell, meet me at Yujing Terrace.
Part 4: The Realm Within
After identifying Rex Lapis' preferred scent, Zhongli sends you to Yujing Terrace to seek out an old friend of his, Madame Ping, and borrow a certain Cleansing Bell.
Strange... Zhongli seems to be avoiding his old friend.
Talk to Madame Ping
Madame Ping: All things must change...
Icon Dialogue Talk White How do you do?
Madame Ping: Mm? Youngster, are you here to admire the flowers?
Madame Ping: But it's a shame. These Glaze Lilies have almost all wilted...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you alright?
Madame Ping: It's nothing, it's nothing. I just thought it a great shame that so many of these Glaze Lilies have wilted.
Paimon: What happened to them?
Madame Ping: Back in my day, people said that Glaze Lilies can read human hearts.
Madame Ping: If they heard beautiful sounds like laughter and singing, they would also bloom joyfully.
Madame Ping: But if they heard too much wild gossip or slander, they would quickly wither away.
Paimon: ...So that means these flowers feel what's happening in Liyue.
Madame Ping: Yes, the rumors of Rex Lapis' death are no small matter. They are everywhere.
Madame Ping: Some say it was a Fatui plot. Others say that the Qixing made it all up, and still others think that That Which Lies in the Deep is breaking free.
Madame Ping: This harbor is like a mountain of dry tinder. One spark and the fire will consume us all.
Madame Ping: ...Well, I shall say no more. This old woman's grown too old and naggy... Did you have something to say, youngster?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We'd like to borrow the Cleansing Bell.
Madame Ping: Ah, that old trinket... I remember it being here with me, but I've grown old. I can't quite recall where it is exactly.
Madame Ping: An old friend of mine used to wear it on his person, back when I was young...
Madame Ping: He saw me gazing at it often and gave it to me.
Madame Ping: But he told me then that if someone should come to borrow that bell, I should not be loath to part with it.
Icon Dialogue Talk White We'd like to borrow something from you...
Madame Ping: Borrow something? ...Oh, you've come to borrow the Cleansing Bell, yes?
Madame Ping: Apart from that, I don't have anything of value that you youngsters might want.
Madame Ping: But it was not originally mine, either. That trinket used to belong to a friend of mine.
Madame Ping: I was a vain beauty when I was young, and I would pester him for that bell all the time.
Madame Ping: He could not dissuade me, and so he gave it to me. But he said that if someone should come to borrow it, I must not be loath to give it away.
Madame Ping: It has been many years, and who knows how many times someone has come to borrow this bell.
Madame Ping: Still, though I can't recall when it started, it's been a long time since anyone has come to borrow it.
Madame Ping: Ah, these old bones are so slow to look for things. I doubt you can wait that long...
Icon Dialogue Talk White We can look for it ourselves.
Paimon: That's right granny. We'll follow you back home, and search for it ourselves!
Paimon: And... Um, we can help with chores if you have any too!
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm a Knights of Favonius-certified lost property finder!
Paimon: What a weird thing to be proud of...
Madame Ping: Alright, children, there is no need to worry. I didn't place the bell very far away.
Paimon: Eh? Do you live near here, granny? Whoa, but this is Yujing Terrace. It's gotta be expensive!
Madame Ping: Haha, an old lady like me can't afford to buy a place in this city. See this ceramic teapot? My entire household is in here.
Paimon: ...How does that work?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It contains your house keys?
Icon Dialogue Talk White The bell is all you own?
Paimon: Hey, that's rude!
Paimon: ...And even if it was like that, it must be a very expensive bell, right granny?
Icon Dialogue Talk White In you go, Paimon.
Paimon: What!? There's no way Paimon would fit in there!
Paimon: And why do you need Paimon to go in, anyway? Can't you just lift the lid and look inside?
Madame Ping: Hohoho, youngsters. I simply mean that the bell is somewhere inside this teapot, and you are quite welcome to borrow it — if you can find it.
Paimon: This granny's so weird, what does she mean her whole household is in here. Is she playing with us?
(Talk to Madame Ping again)
Madame Ping: Aren't you youngsters in a hurry to find that bell? Hop to it, then.
Madame Ping: But be careful. I haven't cleaned this place up in a long time.
Madame Ping: If you were to get dirt on your beautiful clothes, it would take some work to clean up.
Inside the Teapot
(After touching the teapot and being teleported into a Domain)
Paimon: Ehh? Where are we? What... just happened?
Madame Ping: Youngsters, this is where this old woman keeps all her things. Quickly now, go fetch that bell.
Paimon: Whoa! That sounds like granny's voice. So... this is her teapot?
Paimon: What's going on...
Madame Ping: Oh dear, so many cobwebs. It seems I really haven't cleaned it in a long while.
Madame Ping: Sorry to trouble you, children. Please help an old lady clean up.
(Upon reaching the platform with the large Geo Slime and the black spider)
Paimon: Did you notice? The cobwebs were made of elemental energy.
Paimon: How long has it been since granny last swept this place?
(Upon gliding up to the next platform)
Paimon: You know... with such a special teapot, and the Cleansing Bell...
Paimon: Do you think this old granny could also be an adeptus?
Paimon: Paimon's more and more convinced that she's an adeptus.
Paimon: But don't they all live in Jueyun Karst?
Paimon: Why would she stay in the city?
(Upon triggering the next wind current mechanism)
Paimon: Um, how many levels does this teapot have?
Paimon: It would be nice if we had one of these too.
Paimon: Or at least, we wouldn't have to camp outside...
(After taking the Cleansing Bell)
Madame Ping: Oh, you've found it? Youngsters are so quick on their feet.
Madame Ping: Now, let me see... How did this opening work again? Oh dear...
Madame Ping: Alright, that'll do. Come on out now, children.
(After leaving the domain)
Madame Ping: Ho-ho, in and out in no time... You youngsters really are quick.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you an adeptus, ma'am?
Madame Ping: An adeptus... I haven't heard anyone say those words in earnest for a long time.
Madame Ping: As to whether I am one or not, child, surely you already understand?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you one of the Liyue Qixing?
Madame Ping: The Qixing... Those children stopped letting my friends and I into their counsel long ago.
Madame Ping: Still, they've done well recently. We old folks are content to be idle.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you with the Fatui?
Madame Ping: The Fatui? Hah! Child, what goes on in that mind of yours, I wonder?
Madame Ping: I'm far too old to be quibbling with them.
Madame Ping: But if they overreach themselves, I will do what I must.
Paimon: Ugh... Paimon kinda knows what you mean, but is also kinda confused. Are you really giving us the bell just like that Granny?
Paimon: Don't you think it's weird? Something's just happened to Rex Lapis, and then we come running up asking for it...
Madame Ping: Oh, don't be silly. Liyue Harbor has been through a great deal in its history. In that time, it has seen the departure of countless adepti.
Madame Ping: But no matter what, we have always performed the Rite of Parting first before any other matters.
Madame Ping: To cry "<QEN1>catch the murderer!<QEN1>" at the top of one's lungs, but ignore the Rite of Parting... That, to me, is what is wrong-headed.
Madame Ping: Now that you have come to borrow the bell, I guess that perhaps an old friend of mine has finally decided to take matters into their own hands.
Madame Ping: So, why would I be unwilling to lend you the bell?
Icon Dialogue Talk White What if your friend doesn't return it?
Madame Ping: Oh? Well, if it came to that... Haha, they would find a certain old lady knocking at their door.
Madame Ping: We haven't met in a while anyway, it would be nice to share a drink and chat.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Can I keep it?
Paimon: Hey! It belongs to granny! We're supposed to return what we borrow!
Madame Ping: Let you keep it? Haha, you really are a frank child. If you want it, you can keep it.
Madame Ping: But this bell gets homesick sometimes. Who knows, it might find its way back into these old hands...
Madame Ping: Well, you must have things to do. Since you have the bell, you should return.
Madame Ping: Oh, and, do tell the person who sent you...
Madame Ping: ...that if they have time, they can come over for tea.
I don't have much to offer, but you can always count on an old lady for a pot of tea.
Paimon: We will! Thanks, granny!
Madame Ping: It seems my old friends just can't stand idly by anymore.
Madame Ping: Let's just hope nothing messy comes of this.
(Talk to Zhongli at Yujing Terrace)
Zhongli: Indeed, this is the Cleansing Bell. Hmm, it's in good condition.
Zhongli: Let's place the perfume we've prepared inside.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you know Madame Ping?
Zhongli: Of course. How would I know that the bell was with her, otherwise?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you also an adeptus?
Zhongli: An adeptus...
Paimon: That's suspicious! But if you don't want to talk about it, we won't pry.
Paimon: Oh, yes! That old granny asked us to tell you something.
Paimon: "<QEN1>If you have the time, you can come over for tea. I don't have much to offer, but you can always count on an old lady for a pot of tea.<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Ha, that tone does not suit you. Still, her tea pot is indeed very good. There are none better for brewing tea.
Zhongli: When a suitable time arrives, I'll bring a spot of fine tea and pay her a visit.
Paimon: So, what's the next step in our preparations?
Zhongli: Hmm... Next, we need to purchase kites.
Paimon: Ooh! Paimon loves kites! Are you taking us kite flying? Is this our break time?
Zhongli: Haha, no, no. Kites are children's toys, yes, but they also play various symbolic roles in Liyue's rituals.
Zhongli: I will explain it to you. But our next course of action should probably be to purchase the kites first.
Paimon: Oh, sure... curiouser and curiouser...
Part 5: Downtown
Who would have guessed - Madame Ping is an adeptus! After leaving her household, which turned out to be a realm within a teapot, you proceed to Chihu Rock to continue preparations.
Getting Kites
(Talk to Granny Shan)
Granny Shan: Ah, sir, you're here. The seven kites you asked for have been made to order. Would you like to take them now?
Zhongli: Yes. Thank you.
Granny Shan: It's rare to see customers who want to buy this type of kite nowadays. In the early days, we used to get orders from people of all walks of life...
Paimon: Well, this is Mr. Zhongli from the Wangsheng Funeral Parlor, so he's probably well-versed in all these walks of life.
Paimon: We've talked about a whole bunch of things while traveling with him...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Fashion, economics, jewelry and jade pottery...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Tea, perfumes, flora and fauna...
Paimon: He seems to know Liyue's favorite topics, money and government, really well, but he likes talking about less useful topics instead.
Zhongli: Well, that's because I prefer to share fun things with you.
Granny Shan: Children's toys are very fun things, that's for sure. I enjoy watching the children at play as much as anyone else. But there is more to it than that.
Granny Shan: Finely crafted toys are well-loved by children. But this craft itself has been honed over thousands of years, and there is meaning behind that.
Granny Shan: I have made kites in Liyue for forty years, and I am intimately familiar with the forms passed down from my ancestors. The meaning of these seven kites is far from banal.
Zhongli: Indeed. These are decorations used in the Rite of Parting. The seven kites represent The Seven.
Granny Shan: I took the liberty of coloring outside the lines when doing the insignia of the Anemo Archon.
Granny Shan: As for the kite that honors the Geo Archon, one must follow the contract given right down to the last letter. These patterns are ancient, and you can also find them in the Golden House.
Paimon: Ah, Paimon's heard that name before—
Icon Dialogue Talk White Shh!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Paimon, stop talking...
Paimon: Huh?
Zhongli: The design of this kite displays a firm grasp on the cyclicality and eternity so dear to the Electro Archon.
Zhongli: These markings of tree and leaf pay due honor to wisdom and the passage of time. All this, on a single kite — truly astonishing.
Zhongli: Justice flows across the surface of the waters, war rages like a flame, as does that which the Cryo Archon once... yes, these details are masterfully done.
Granny Shan: Hehehe, the compliments of a learned man truly are pleasant.
Zhongli: Well then, Granny Shan, I shall take these back with me. As for the payment...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Uh-oh!
Icon Dialogue Talk White "<QEN1>As for the payment,<QEN1>" he says!
Childe: Well, allow me.
Paimon: Hey, it's Childe!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Did you arrange to meet here?
Childe: Haha. No, I was merely passing through.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You ambushed us!
Childe: Haha, no way. I was just passing through!
Childe: I see Mr. Zhongli's the same as ever. When paying— Well, when getting others to pay for him, he neither looks at the price tag nor his wallet.
Childe: He knows a great deal about money, and about the trials of the common man. He just doesn't consider poverty to be something that could ever happen to him.
Childe: Or perhaps you could say that he cannot imagine himself lacking money.
Paimon: How has he not died of hunger yet?
Zhongli: ...Childe, you are as fond of jokes as ever.
Well then, since we've purchased our kites without incident, there's no need to take a break before moving to the next step in our preparations.
Zhongli: The Rite of Parting requires helping hands as well as materials. We should be able to find some people near the harbor.
Childe: Oh, by the way, Traveler, take this bag of money. You probably won't want to let Zhongli do the bargaining, if you know what I mean.
Childe: Hmm... It seems I missed out on some interesting information.
Childe: ...I suppose I'll just have to find a more opportune moment next time.
Hiring Help
Tic: Oh? Help? Sure! I, Tic, always put in one hundred percent effort into everything I do! Of course, there'll be a premium if you want me to give a hundred and ten percent.
Tic: So what's the job?
Zhongli: Let me see... we are still missing some wooden implements over at Yujing Terrace. They aren't uncommon objects, so I didn't make any special preparations for them.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Fetch me 50 tree branches, and 20 stacks of timber!
Tic: No problem. That'll be twenty thousand Mora for a single trip. How does that sound?
Zhongli: Done.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Wait, let's talk prices.
(If the price is right)
Tic: Let me think... Deal. This price is reasonable. I'll hop right to it.
(If the price is far too low)
Tic: Oh, come on, that's too little.
Tic: You're mad! And to think I was so willing to bargain, too! Twenty thousand Mora, and not one Mora less! If not, the deal's off!
Paimon: Hey, don't get mad... Ah, guess we have no choice but to pay in full, (‍Traveler‍).
Icon Dialogue Talk White We have a deal.
Tic: Oh? You're a straight shooter, huh? We have a deal.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ugh, we brought too little money...
Tic: This is all you've got? Then no can do.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Please go look for someone named Childe...
Tic: Childe? No, no, no. He's putting up the money? Still, no. Wouldn't that mean that I have to make two trips rather than one?
Tic: How about this. Let's make a trade. I'll take what you're offering right now, and...
Tic: Get me a single Qingxin flower, and I'll consider that payment for a detour to find this Childe fellow. How does that sound?
Paimon: Guess we've got no choice.
(Return to Tic)
Tic: Have you brought the goods?
Tic: Hey, that's pretty good. These things are pretty rare, and I have no idea where I'd find them.
Tic: With this Qingxin flower, I should be able to pacify my daughter tonight. I'll make sure the work is done before I return home.
(Talk to Tac)
Tac: A full day of odd jobs at Yujing Terrace? Hmm... No problem. Twenty-five thousand per day. A fair trade, yes?
Paimon: Whoa, that's expensive. Um, could you give us a bit of a discount on account of the whole Hero of Mondstadt thing?
Tac: Hero of Mondstadt? Never heard of them.
Zhongli: Well, you may never have heard of this hero, but it seems you've heard of Mora nevertheless, thus I will simply pay the whole sum.
(If the price is right)
Tac: This price'll do. No loss to me for a day's work.
(If the price is too low)
Tac: This... is too little. I'd consider it if it was a bit higher.
Tac: That's too little. Hardly a fair price.
Tac: That's enough! I'm done! Twenty-five thousand, and not a Mora less! Take it or leave it!
Icon Dialogue Talk White We'll pay in full.
Tac: Hey, that's a good price. Anyone would work for this much Mora.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ugh, we brought too little money...
Tac: This is all you've got? Then no can do.
Tac: Childe? No, no, no. He's putting up the money? Still, no. Wouldn't that mean that I have to make two trips rather than one?
Tac: How about this. Let's make a trade. I'll take what you're offering right now, and...
Tac: Find me a high-quality Lotus Head. I'll consider that my detour fee paid, and go find what's-his-face Childe. How about it?
(Return to Tac)
Tac: Have you brought the goods?
Tac: Oh, that looks good. I'm hitting the kitchen tonight, and it's not often that I get to use such fresh and high-end ingredients...
Tac: Well, I'll head to Yujing Terrace in a moment. I won't be late!
(Talk to Toe)
Toe: Hiring help? Sure, but let me just say first that I'm a reserve member of the Adventurers' Guild. I take adventuring commissions, but I don't do anything clerical.
Zhongli: Adventure... venturing into the mountains to capture a few crystalflies seems adventurous enough.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Brave adventurer, we have need of 5 crystalflies.
Toe: Eh? That's not hard, almost a bit too easy for a reserve adventurer... Eh, never mind. I'll only charge you fifteen thousand Mora. What say you?
Zhongli: A most fair price.
Icon Dialogue Talk White No, let's negotiate...
Toe: Five Geo Crystalflies... Yes, I do think it's worth about this much. I'll do it.
(If the price is far too low)
Toe: That won't do, I'm afraid. It's too little! Too little, I say!
(If bartering is unsuccessful)
Toe: Fifteen thousand Mora, not one less! That's the lowest I'm going, end of story!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Yes, a fair price.
Toe: A pleasure doing business with you.
Toe: This is all you've got? Then no can do.
Toe: Childe? No, no, no. He's putting up the money? Still, no. Wouldn't that mean that I have to make two trips rather than one?
Toe: How about this. Let's make a trade. I'll take what you're offering right now, and...
Toe: Get me a piece of iron ore. I'll take that as payment to go see that Childe person. What do you think?
Paimon: Guess we've got no choice...
(Return to Toe)
Toe: Have you brought the goods?
Toe: Mm, this is good ore. As an adventurer, one must have a trusty weapon by one's side...
Toe: This'll work. Once I've finished, I will go and claim my payment.
Talk to Childe
Childe: All finished then? Splendid. Any leftover cash is yours to keep — a favor for the Fatui should never go unrewarded.
Paimon: You think you can buy us off with some loose change? No way! Paimon demands to know when the next payment is coming!
Childe: Haha. Well, how does this sound: You give me the information I need, and maybe I'll leave the Northland Bank's vaults open and unattended for half an hour...
Paimon: What info do you need!?
Icon Dialogue Talk White No!
Paimon: Huh? (‍Traveler‍), does that mean you know what he's after?
Icon Dialogue Talk White What else could the Fatui want?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Are you forgetting what happened in Mondstadt?
Paimon: Yikes! You're right, Signora...
Childe: ...
Childe: You both need to calm down... I don't know what's gotten into you, (‍Traveler‍).
Childe: Just what is this about? The atmosphere got so tense all of a sudden.
Paimon: Ehh...
(Zhongli turns up just in time to break the awkward atmosphere...)
Zhongli: Next, we need some Everlasting Incense. For this, we need to go to Bubu Pharmacy, the finest pharmacy in all of—
Zhongli: Is... everything okay?
Childe: Everything is fine. I was just informing them that they need not return the surplus Mora.
Childe: Now if you'll excuse me, I must be going.
Paimon: Paimon definitely felt like Childe wasn't happy with us just now...
Part 6: Guizhong
You came to renowned purveyor of Liyue herbal medicine, Bubu Pharmacy, to procure some Everlasting Incense.
But what started out as a straightforward trip to the pharmacy has turned into a far more complicated affair...
Bubu Pharmacy
(Enter Bubu Pharmacy)
Paimon: Huh, the reception is deserted. And it seems kinda spooky in here...
Paimon: Hello? Is anybody there?
???: Welcome to Bubu Pharmacy.
Paimon: D-did you hear that? Wh-Where did it come from?
Zhongli: The reception, it seems.
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍), how about... you go check it out, and... Paimon will bring up the rear.
(After approaching the reception desk)
Paimon: Oh, there you are! But you can't even reach the counter!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Is she... a zombie!?
Paimon: Ah... Paimon thinks you might be right! Look at the talisman on her forehead!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Paimon, if we're going to talk about height, you ahh...
Paimon: Joke's on you — Paimon floats, so height is no restriction.
Paimon: Anyway, there's something weird about this one over here. What's that talisman doing on her forehead?
Paimon: It can't be... she's... a zombie!?
Qiqi: Welcome to Bubu Pharmacy. I am Qiqi.
Qiqi: Once upon a time, Qiqi died. Then, Qiqi was saved by the adepti. Now, Qiqi is a zombie.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Such nonchalant delivery for a bombshell revelation...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do zombies also count as adepti...?
Paimon: Something like this would be unimaginable in Mondstadt...
Zhongli: Hello... little girl.
Do you sell Everlasting Incense here?
Qiqi: Excuse me, sir. Did you bring your prescription?
Zhongli: I... Surely no prescription is needed to purchase Everlasting Incense? It's not a controlled substance...
Qiqi: Qiqi can get your medicine. But only if you show Qiqi your prescription. These are Qiqi's orders, from Qiqi.
Icon Dialogue Talk White "<QEN1>Orders<QEN1>"?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Why is she being so difficult?
Zhongli: I'm afraid that she's probably right — it's to do with her orders.
Zhongli: Zombies are limited to acting within the confines of their orders.
And somehow, in this case, the zombie issues her own orders to herself.
Zhongli: My dear Qiqi, we didn't bring a prescription, I'm afraid. But we do hope that you can still help us find some Everlasting Incense.
Qiqi: Okay then.
Paimon: How did you manage that?
Qiqi: But, Qiqi helps you, you help Qiqi. Only fair.
Paimon: Since when do customers need to do favors for customer service staff?
Zhongli: Never mind, just think of it as a peer-to-peer transaction. That way everybody wins. Sometimes, in Liyue, the art of the deal is simply about victory via mental gymnastics.
Qiqi: Go to Mt. Tianheng. Find the Guizhong Ballista. And hunt a Cocogoat. Please and thank you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Hunt the what with the which at where?
Zhongli: Guizhong Ballista... I have heard of this device before.
Icon Dialogue Talk White She's playing games with us...
Zhongli: I don't believe so. The Guizhong Ballista, at least, I have heard of before.
Zhongli: It is a kind of crossbow turret, installed on Mt. Tianheng by an adeptus in the distant past. An early mechanical device.
Zhongli: Located in Tianheng Pass, it was designed to automatically fire at large monsters, protecting Liyue from external threats.
Paimon: Mr. Zhongli really knows Liyue inside out!
Zhongli: Apparently, not quite... This is the first I have ever heard of the "<QEN1>Cocogoat.<QEN1>"
Qiqi: The Cocogoat is a legendary animal. An adeptibeast.
Paimon: Did you wanna add anything else, or...
Qiqi: No. Just that the Cocogoat is a legendary animal. An adeptibeast.
Qiqi: What it looks like: don't know. Where to find it: don't know either. Where it came from: also don't know.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do tell us if you remember anything else you don't remember...
Icon Dialogue Talk White This isn't much to go on...
Zhongli: Very well then... Let's start by investigating near the Guizhong Ballista. Perhaps we will find some clues.
Paimon: What the heck is a Cocogoat...
(Talk to Qiqi again)
Qiqi: Cocogoat. Go find it.
The Ballista
(Upon checking the ballista)
Paimon: It's huge! Paimon can totally believe it took an adeptus to build this.
Paimon: But... how do you operate this thing? Just think how much strength you would need...
Zhongli: Hmm... It is currently inoperable, in any case. This device is broken.
Paimon: Aw, what? It broke!?
Zhongli: After millennia of wear and tear, even adepti contraptions are difficult to maintain.
Paimon: So what're we gonna do? Quick, Mr. Zhongli, use your unlimited high-society knowledge powers!
Zhongli: Hmm. You almost make it sound like I'm some sort of... bourgeois parasite, whose only utility lies in providing quaint pieces of trivia on demand.
Zhongli: That said, let me think for a moment... Ah yes. Spare parts were made for the Guizhong Ballista when it was first built, in case it was damaged in battle.
Zhongli: As I recall, there is a military supply post from that period somewhere inside the Pass.
Zhongli: If we can retrieve the spare parts from where they are stored, we may be able to repair the Guizhong Ballista. One just needs to understand the basic working principles of the device.
Paimon: So... what you're saying is that you actually understand the working principles?
Zhongli: I have a smattering of knowledge on the topic.
Zhongli: With the parts in hand, I could at least tinker with it.
(While looking for the supply post)
Paimon: Where is that supply post? Here, posty posty posty...
(After finding Guizhong Ballista Maintenance Material ×2 and returning)
Zhongli: These parts look useful.
Zhongli: One moment, I will try to repair the device...
Zhongli: It is done.
The Guizhong Ballista is more intricately designed than I thought.
Paimon: Woo! Now how do we turn it on?
Zhongli: It's easy enough. We simply need to do this... Look, it even has a scope.
Paimon: Over here we have... nothing. And over there... More nothing.
Freckle Huang: Hey! Just what do you think you're doing!?
Freckle Huang: So you fixed up this turret... because you're planning to do what, exactly!?
Zhongli: Not a turret. A Guizhong Ballista. Also, kindly state your name before you ask a question, it's just good manners.
Freckle Huang: Ha! Are you blind or something? You're looking at the leader of the Treasure Hoarders, old man!
Freckle Huang: This area's supposed to be chock-full of hidden treasures, but you can't get anywhere near them with this thing keeping watch. It might look like any other mechanical device, but trust me, it's got a mind of its own!
Freckle Huang: Last time we approached the mountain, it nearly skewered one of our guys!
Freckle Huang: A few of us risked our lives to disarm it — which, amazingly, we managed — and then we turn our backs for two seconds and you've ALREADY GONE AND REPAIRED IT!?
Freckle Huang: The next thing you'll be repairing is your faces, and that's if you get out of this alive!
Zhongli: Tut-tut. Vandalizing the legacy of an adeptus for selfish gain. Disgraceful behavior.
Zhongli: It is not we who need reprimanding, but you.
(After defeating all the Treasure Hoarders)
Paimon: These lowlifes didn't know who they were messing with!
Zhongli: Troubling ourselves over this rabble is not worth the time. We should focus on our contract with Qiqi.
Paimon: Oh yeah... that.
So we've got the Guizhong Ballista working, but where's our Cocogoat?
Zhongli: A search using the Guizhong Ballista revealed no significant life forms nearby, save for the usual wildlife.
Zhongli: What's more, a contraption built using adeptus technology should have no trouble detecting an "<QEN1>adeptibeast<QEN1>" as Qiqi put it.
Paimon: Sigh... Which means...
Icon Dialogue Talk White ...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Repairing this was a complete waste of time?
Paimon: Paimon wouldn't go that far. We did something positive, right?
Zhongli: We won't solve anything while standing here and racking our brains. Let's return to Bubu Pharmacy, explain that we could not find a Cocogoat, and review our next step.
Paimon: Good idea. We did our best, and that's what counts.
Return to Bubu Pharmacy
Zhongli: Forgive us, we were unable to fulfill our end of the contract. We found no trace of the Cocogoat adeptibeast of which you speak.
Qiqi: Ah. What a disappointment. Don't worry about it. But I feel very disappointed.
Paimon: Aw, poor Qiqi... Why does Paimon feel so guilty all of a sudden?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Qiqi, do you have any other clues?
Icon Dialogue Talk White What do you need this Cocogoat for?
Qiqi: Cocogoat milk is tasty. So tasty. Much better than normal goat milk. Only an adeptibeast could make such tasty milk.
Qiqi: I'm sorry. I have a... poor memory. I cannot remember the name of the milk. That's why I wrote it down. Where did I put it...
Qiqi: Ah. Here. This is the name. "<QEN1>Coconut milk.<QEN1>"
Crowd: Ehh!?
Zhongli: ...
Zhongli: I... owe you both an apology. I hastily agreed to what appeared to be an equitable agreement with this zombie child, when perhaps I should have undertaken further due diligence.
Paimon: Never mind Zhongli, you didn't know. As the Liyue proverb goes, "<QEN1>All things are random, and... so how are you supposed to predict anything?<QEN1>" Literally no one could have seen this coming...
Qiqi: Excuse me, everyone.
Did Qiqi say a bad thing?
Paimon: Ooh... Sorry, (‍Traveler‍), but Paimon's gonna leave the job of shattering this poor kiddo's world to you...
Icon Dialogue Talk White It all begins with the fruit of the coconut tree...
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's time to tell you where coconut milk comes from...
Qiqi: No... Im-Impossible...
Paimon: Seems Qiqi took this pretty hard.
Icon Dialogue Talk White She just needs time to work through it.
Icon Dialogue Talk White They all need to grow up sometime.
Baizhu: Haha, someone learnt a valuable life lesson today, then? Thank you all for looking after my little Qiqi.
Zhongli: Might I ask, who...
Baizhu: Ah, how rude of me.I'm Baizhu, boss of the Bubu Pharmacy.
Paimon: Paimon thought Qiqi was the boss... turns out it's some wacko who wears medicinal ingredients around his neck!
White Snake: What a sorry state of affairs...
This little mascot is even more of a simpleton than Qiqi...
Paimon: Ah!
The medicine— the snake is s-speaking!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Wow, a talking snake!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Nothing in Liyue surprises me anymore.
White Snake: Hmph! I prefer to stay silent. But faced with strangers, I must speak, lest you mistake me for an escapee from the medicine cabinet, for I am a living, breathing serpent!
Baizhu: Hahaha, don't mind Changsheng, she's a good girl, really. As for you three... Communal chaos-causing with Qiqi aside, what business brings you here?
Zhongli: Do you sell Everlasting Incense in this fine establishment?
Baizhu: Everlasting Incense? Why, of course we do!
Paimon: Phew, at last! Things are finally starting to come together—
Baizhu: Three million Mora, top quality, guaranteed.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Three million?!
Paimon: You might as well just rob the Golden House! Oh, but the Qixing have taken it over for now... Security will be tighter than usual.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You might as well just rob the Golden House!
Paimon: Too bad the Qixing have taken it over for now... Security will be tighter than usual.
Zhongli: Hmm... Three million... An innocuous number in and of itself, though practically speaking, it could be a hard sum to come by.
Paimon: It's a crazy number! We'd never be able to make that much Mora, and as for Mr. Zhongli... he's around three million short.
Zhongli: This is correct.
Icon Dialogue Talk White No shame...
Paimon: What are we gonna do? Is this the part where we go crawling back to Childe?
Twenty minutes later...
Childe: Bwahahahahahahahaha!
Childe: Cocogoat! Cocogo— Ahahaow my sides hurt... Oh my goodness, I cannot BELIEVE you fell for that!
Paimon: Hey! Less laughter, more sympathy!
Childe: I'm almost in tears over here...Ah, thank you, that was the best laugh I've had in a long time. In return, I'm more than happy to sort out this mess you've managed to get yourselves into...
Childe: Excuse me, sir... Dr. Baizhu, isn't it? Truly honored. I'm Childe, one of the Fatui harbingers. Forgive my audacity, but I see a great many opportunities for us to collaborate in the future...
Childe: If Bubu Pharmacy needed a stable supply of, say, coconut milk, the Fatui could help by setting up a robust and speedy distribution network.
Changsheng: Strange... I knew the Fatui infiltrated businesses with seductive deals, but... So much fuss over coconut milk?
Qiqi: Coconut milk. Baizhu. Quick. Qiqi wants coconut milk.
Baizhu: Ah... Yes, of course, Qiqi, anything you want... Th-Thank you, Childe. I look forward to a successful collaboration in the future. I can give you a discount on that Everlasting Incense too, let's say... 2,990,000 Mora.
Paimon: That's like, zero difference from three million!
Also an innocuous number in and of itself, though practically speaking it is a whole ten thousand less than the original sum of three million.
Zhongli: Well, now that this is settled, we must head back to Yujing Terrace.
Mr. Childe, Dr. Baizhu, Little Miss Qiqi, see you soon.
(Outside the pharmacy, while Paimon and Traveler are still speaking to Baizhu and Qiqi)
Childe: That lot is an absolute riot. Honestly, I can't remember the last time I laughed so hard.
Childe: So. You've been eavesdropping, I hope. What have I missed?
Ekaterina: Yes, Master Childe. They spoke of the Qixing taking the Golden House...
Childe: Well, well, well. Ningguang and her Qixing cronies. What else would they be hiding in the Golden House... if not the Exuvia?
Childe: I apologize, (‍Traveler‍). But I warned you, didn't I? As the old Liyue saying goes: "<QEN1>The walls have ears.<QEN1>"
(Talk to Qiqi)
Qiqi: This is good. There will be coconut milk from now on. Yes, it's good.
(Talk to Baizhu)
Baizhu: What an odd exchange we've had. Well, I look forward to your patronage in the future as well. Hahaha.
Changsheng: That sound is the laughter of a man who's found new people to fleece. Consider yourselves warned...
Yujing Terrace
Zhongli: Well, as it stands, we've hired helpers, and we've acquired the Everlasting Incense.
The completion of our preparations is not far off.
Paimon: Whew... Finally!
Zhongli: Well, Traveler. Have you gained anything from our adventure so far?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's been... odd.
Zhongli: Odd?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm not sure if we've been living the high life...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Or experiencing the struggles of the poor?
Zhongli: Haha, which is it, I wonder?
Zhongli: The questions that such travels raise are ever so complicated. Well, I'll leave you to ruminate over it yourself. As to remuneration for your help, I've decided...
Zhongli: ...to treat you to a meal.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Zhongli... treating?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Wow. Amazing.
Zhongli: Oh? Ah, yes, don't worry. I will remember to bring the Mora this time.
Zhongli: Tonight, I shall take you both to an old hole-in-the-wall, praised throughout Liyue.
Paimon: Hole-in-the-wall? As in... a cool restaurant?
Zhongli: Indeed. let us meet near the harbor at "<QEN1>Third-Round Knockout.<QEN1>"
(Observe the censer)
Observe the censer: (Everlasting Incense... The lengths we went to to get our hands on that.)
Observe the censer: (I guess they'll burn it during the Rite of Parting...?)
Observe the censer: (It should be a spectacular sight... two million, nine-hundred-and-ninety thousand Mora's worth of incense, going up in smoke.)
(Observe the kites)
Observe the kites: (The seven kites used in the ceremony, which represent The Seven.)
Observe the kites: (How long before I find the one who took my (‍sister‍/‍brother‍)?)
Part 7: Zhongli's Treat
That Bubu Pharmacy trip turned into quite an exhilarating ride. (Okay, maybe not that exhilarating.) In yet another remarkable twist, Zhongli has offered to treat you to dinner!
(After sitting next to Zhongli)
Zhongli: Ah, you're here.There's no need to order, I've already done so.
Zhongli: "<QEN1>Third-Round Knockout<QEN1>" is not for lightweights, like those taverns in Mondstadt. Here, the owner does not take such unorthodox orders as fruit juice.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So, does this mean I can order wine this time?
Zhongli: I ordered some wine-fermented sweet rice balls for you, if that counts.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I guess I should have expected this...
Iron Tongue Tian: ...If it's to your liking, dear customers, I shall continue the tale of Lady Ningguang's Jade Chamber.
Paimon: Hey, there's even a storyteller here! Great atmosphere!
Zhongli: Besides the fine wine, the excellent ambiance is the reason why this place is so well loved.
Zhongli: But, when I say ambiance, I refer to a different sort from the one the Teyvat Travel Guide uses to judge other establishments.
Iron Tongue Tian: As you all know, high above the land of Liyue lies a pavilion in the clouds, a palace in the mist...
Iron Tongue Tian: What does it mean to have all-seeing eyes? This, my friends: Lady Ningguang's masterwork that bridges earth and sky.
Iron Tongue Tian: Imagine. The weather is clear, and you gaze down from the deck on the world below...
Iron Tongue Tian: Behold! The glorious sights of Liyue Harbor, stretching out far and wide!
(A cinematic begins)
Iron Tongue Tian: They say that when Lady Ningguang ponders important affairs, she retreats to her Jade Chamber with none but her three closest confidantes in tow. Why brings she these trusted three? To sift through sources, dig through documents — looking for information.
Iron Tongue Tian: Piece by piece, facts and figures paint a picture on the walls of the chamber... But well before the wall is filled, Lady Ningguang's mind is made up.
Iron Tongue Tian: Having made her call, she has every last document shredded. And fwoosh! she scatters the shavings out her window.
Iron Tongue Tian: Ah, look at them! How they billow in the wind like a sudden swirling blizzard! As the fragments fall, traces of text flicker before the eyes of the merchants of Liyue like ink stains in white snow.
Iron Tongue Tian: The saying goes, the rarest treasures in the land are the words brought by the paper snow. For the words of the Tianquan have the power to move mountains and all throughout the land know it.
Iron Tongue Tian: These are but scraps of paper, and yet they guide Lady Ningguang's hand — such is their value.
Iron Tongue Tian: Merely grasping one or two of them will surely gift you a fragment of her wisdom — enough to stay a step or two ahead of your peers.
Paimon: Tianquan Ningguang... feels like we're hearing this name a lot.
Paimon: Liyue locals talk about her, the Fatui hate her, she's most likely the one who hid the Exuvia, and we saw her at the Rite of Descension...
Paimon: Paimon wonders what sort of person she is.
???: At last, I have found you, you who returned from Jueyun Karst.
Paimon: Who's there?
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Paimon, we gotta go...!)
???: Wait, I am not with the Millelith, nor am I here to claim your bounty!
Ganyu: However, I am an emissary of the Liyue Qixing. My name is Ganyu, secretary at the Yuehai Pavilion, and I have come specifically to meet you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Emissary?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Secretary?
Ganyu: Well, in concrete terms, I am the corporate secretary for the Qixing. At the moment, I am serving as Lady Ningguang's special emissary.
Paimon: Ningguang sent you? We were literally just talking about her...
Ganyu: My apologies, you who have returned from Jueyun Karst... I am duty-bound, and cannot extend my courtesy to you in full.
Ganyu: But I have with me a letter from lady Ningguang. She extends a formal invitation to you in her capacity as Tianquan.
Ganyu: She invites you to her palace in the sky.
Paimon: An official invitation...?
Ganyu: Lady Ningguang said this:
Ganyu: "<QEN1>Invite (‍him‍/‍her‍) to come here.<QEN1>"
Ganyu: "<QEN1>I wish to meet (‍him‍/‍her‍).<QEN1>"
Ganyu: "<QEN1>At the Jade Chamber, together, we shall snip every one of these entwining dark threads.<QEN1>"
Paimon: And with that, the emissary who called herself Ganyu just disappeared.
Paimon: But we've received an invitation from the Liyue Qixing. Paimon still can't believe it!
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍)! We'll be meeting people that have any more money than Paimon could ever count! We should be on our very best manners!
Icon Dialogue Talk White I always mind my manners.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Paimon is up to something again...
Zhongli: Hah... An invitation to visit the Jade Chamber is a rare honor, indeed.
Zhongli: You'd best be on your way now. But don't forget about the Rite of Parting. Once you've finished at the Jade Chamber, meet me at Dihua Marsh.
Paimon: Don't worry, we won't forget! Dihua Marsh. We'll see you there!
Zhongli: Ningguang... Ganyu...
Zhongli: I wonder where we will find them amid these dark tides?
Act III - A New Star Approaches
Part 1: The Floating Palace
The mysterious emissary Ganyu appeared before you at Third-Round Knockout. Claiming to have come at Ningguang's behest, she invited you to the skyfaring palace known as the Jade Chamber. To that end, you and Paimon have come to Mt. Tianheng, from where you can see the Jade Chamber in the distance.
Paimon: Look, up there! That's the Jade Chamber.
(Climb Mt. Tianheng)
Icon Dialogue Talk White That's pretty high up.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Question is, how do we get up there?
Paimon: Hmm... Uhh...
Paimon: Ah, this is bad, Paimon's supposed to be your guide, but Paimon doesn't know where the way up to the Jade Chamber is...
Icon Dialogue Talk White You're only realizing that now!?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We should have asked that emissary, Ganyu.
Paimon: Ugh...
Paimon: Well, since we want to go to the Jade Chamber, heading to its location on the map is the sensible thing to do!
Paimon: Let's look around. There has to be a way up there nearby!
(Find wind current mechanism)
Paimon: Hey, look! There's some sort of mechanism thingy!
Paimon: Since this is the right place, it must have something to do with the Jade Chamber.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Maybe it's the way to the Jade Chamber?
Paimon: Yes, this must be the way!
Icon Dialogue Talk White It looks like some sort of trap.
Paimon: No way! Just trust Paimon's instincts!
(Activate mechanism and go to the floating island)
Paimon: Huh? It only takes us up to here...
Paimon: Aw, if that wind current was strong, we'd be able to reach the top in one go!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Best we go back to Liyue and ask the Millelith...
Paimon: Huh? Why?
Icon Dialogue Talk White The way up shouldn't be a secret, or...
Paimon: Or? ...Oh, Paimon gets it!
If it was a secret, Ganyu wouldn't have let us try to find it ourselves, right?
Paimon: Alright, let's follow your plan, then we can...
Paimon: Ooh! Hang on a moment. Look down there!
Paimon: Looks like we've gotten close to the Guizhong Ballista.
Paimon: Hmm... Uh...
Paimon has a new idea!
Paimon: Why don't we shoot you up to the Jade Chamber using the Ballista?
Icon Dialogue Talk White No thanks. I don't have a death wish.
Paimon: Oh... Right. This method does seem a bit unsafe...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Still, I do remember that the Ballista had a scope.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Do you really hate me that much?
Paimon: Uh... No. Paimon may have just forgotten to think about safety measures...
Paimon: Oh, that's right!
Paimon: Now that you mention it, we could use the Guizhong Ballista to see if there's another way up nearby!
(Head over to the Guizhong Ballista)
Huaqing: Halt!
Huaqing: Who trespasses on these hallowed grounds?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We're just passing through...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Hallowed what now? These are the wilds around Mt. Tianheng...
Paimon: Exactly. What're you talking about?
Paimon: We're invited guests! What makes you think you can treat us like this?
Paimon: No... Wait... Maybe this was Ningguang's plan all along!
Paimon: She pretended to invite us to the Jade Chamber, but set up a Millelith ambush here to arrest us!
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm quite sure that's not the case.
Icon Dialogue Talk White We haven't explained the invitation to them yet...
Paimon: Grr... Now Paimon's mad! ...You! Over there! This is a trick, isn't it? How shameless!
Huaqing: What? We're just on guard duty. What do you mean, "<QEN1>shameless<QEN1>"?
Yang: What nonsense! Seize these suspicious intruders at once!
Paimon: Well, here they come — line 'em up and knock 'em down!
(After fighting the Millelith)
???: Stop! What's all this about?
Huaqing: Lady Keqing, these two strange people suddenly appeared. They seem to have designs on the Guizhong Ballista.
Paimon: Who're you calling "<QEN1>strange<QEN1>"?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We were just looking for the way to the Jade Chamber.
Keqing: Hmm? You want to go to the Jade Chamber? Who are you?
Paimon: We're invited guests, here to look for the Liyue Qixing! Who are you?
Keqing: ...
Keqing: Well, as it happens, I am one of the Liyue Qixing.
Keqing: I'm Keqing, the Yuheng of the Qixing.
Keqing: I know of you, Traveler. You're Ningguang's guests, yes? Didn't expect to meet you here in the mountains.
Paimon: Wow... Paimon didn't think we'd meet some super rich big shot out here in the middle of nowhere either.
Keqing: The Guizhong Ballista in Tianheng Pass has long been in disrepair, and yet it was fixed in a single night. I came here to investigate that occurence.
Keqing: These Millelith are just here to guard the scene, not to arrest anyone.
Paimon: So, this was all a misunderstanding? Paimon never would've thought...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Thinking isn't that hard, Paimon.
Keqing: Anyway, for a mortal to be able to repair an adepti mechanism is quite the mystery, even to the Qixing.
Paimon: Hehe, that was...
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Shh, Paimon, don't complicate the matter!)
Icon Dialogue Talk White (We only did a tiny part of the work there...)
Paimon: Eh? Oh, right. So, Lady Yuheng, might you have any idea why Lady Tianquan invited us to go to the Jade Chamber?
Keqing: Just call me Keqing.
Keqing: I'd say that Ningguang's purpose is to request that the savior of Mondstadt take a more neutral stance... Or at least, to not wholly side with the adepti.
Paimon: We're not taking sides. We spoke with the adepti. They want to protect Liyue as well...
Keqing: When you say "<QEN1>protect,<QEN1>" you're referring to their sanctimonious arrogance, aren't you?
Paimon: Huh?
Keqing: You are mortals, and thus under their protection. There was no way they would have regarded you as someone with the ability to assassinate a god.
Keqing: Naturally, they would also regard Ningguang's locking down the area, questioning the citizenry, and pursuit of the assassin to be pointless work. Perhaps they even wonder if there might be a cover-up.
Keqing: I'll say it like it is: they're underestimating us.
Paimon: Well, you've got a point there...
Paimon: Still, this is the first time Paimon's seen a person from Liyue who doesn't respect the gods or the adepti.
Keqing: Hah. Should I respect the shallow sense of time and condescension to mortals that has caused them to delay in moving against us Qixing?
Keqing: Forget it. I shouldn't speak of them this way. This skepticism is mine alone, and Ningguang does not share it.
Keqing: Either way, I will admit that the actions of the adepti this time were quite restrained.
Keqing: Rex Lapis' death is indeed an extraordinary circumstance. But to think that they would call for a council of adepti rather than come down here directly...
Keqing: How surprisingly civilized of them.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Any chance you could talk it out with them?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ningguang would prefer to negotiate, wouldn't she?
Keqing: Well, for Ningguang... She would talk anything and everything out if she could. But I doubt we can do that here.
Keqing: The time of the adepti has long passed. If even the Liyue Qixing don't want to face that truth, then what future is there for Liyue?
Paimon: Phew... Another super bold statement...
Keqing: *sigh* I'll stop here.
Honestly, I hadn't intended to say so much. But you're a good listener, Traveler.
Keqing: You should both be off to the Jade Chamber. Don't be late, now. Ningguang's schedule is packed to the gills all the way till next year.
Keqing: The cream of Liyue's mercantile crop all see "<QEN1>ascending to the Jade Chamber<QEN1>" as the greatest honor. Each brings rich gifts as they visit, all to curry a little favor with Ningguang.
Paimon: Favor?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Paimon, that's not the point.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Paimon, get serious.
Paimon: But... But!
Paimon: Wait, that's right! Greeting gifts are a staple of Liyue's culture. We need to get one, not to curry favor or anything — just to... respect Liyue's culture!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ah, so eager...
Keqing: Alright, alright. You can decide on your greeting gift yourselves. Let me tell you how to get to the Jade Chamber first.
Keqing: You didn't actually have to come to Mt. Tianheng. Go back to Liyue Harbor, find a guide at the Yuehai Pavilion, and...
You listen as Keqing explains the correct path.
Keqing: Well then. May we meet again, Traveler.
Paimon: Well, that Yuheng may not respect the gods, but Paimon thinks she's a pretty cool person.
Icon Dialogue Talk White She made a good impression on me, too.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I agree with some of her views.
Paimon: So... What should be give to Ningguang when we see her?
Icon Dialogue Talk White You really have shifted focus, haven't you, Paimon...
Paimon: Oh, right! Paimon dreamed of an amazing snack last night — Sugar-Frosted Slime!
Paimon: Paimon has a feeling that it would be perfect for a super rich person like Ningguang!
Paimon: Why don't we go with that for a gift?
Icon Dialogue Talk White So, do you have a recipe?
Paimon: Nope! But Paimon's sure that we just need to make it with some boom shaka-laka!
Icon Dialogue Talk White And... how would we make this thing you dreamed up?
Paimon: With a certain boom shaka-laka, of course!
Paimon: Let's go gather ingredients. Time waits for no one, and neither will our riches!
Part 2: Equilibrium
After arriving at the Guizhong Ballista on Mt. Tianheng, you are surprised to meet another member of the Qixing there.
Her name is Keqing, and she gives you detailed instructions on how to ascend to the Jade Chamber.
Paimon, however, is preoccupied with another detail that Keqing mentioned: the custom of bringing a greeting gift.
Gathering Ingredients
Paimon: Ooh! Look at that slime! It looks crystal clear... and very delicious!
Paimon: Huh? Is it just Paimon, or is there a sweet fragrance in the air...?
Paimon: Huh... Did you hear that?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It sounded like someone calling out for help.
Paimon: It seemed like it came from those ruins over there...
Icon Dialogue Talk White It sounded like someone was singing.
Paimon: Uh, no! That was definitely someone in trouble! It came from those ruins over there.
Paimon: Uh oh, it looks like the Treasure Hoarders have locked someone inside.
(While Meng Dan is in the cage)
Meng Dan: Phew... Thank you for you help, kind travelers. If you hadn't come to my aid, I surely would have rotted in this cell! Those Treasure Hoarders... when their mood was good, they'd rearrange those pots of Sweet Flowers. But when they were in a bad mood, they'd rearrange my face...
Paimon: Aw, it was nothing. No need to thank us all at once or anything!
Meng Dan: Haha, I understand. Don't worry, I will compensate you both.
Icon Dialogue Talk White There's really no need.
Meng Dan: Don't say that! I only escaped this predicament because of you.
Meng Dan: I'm Meng Dan, a supplier for Mingxing Jewelry in Liyue Harbor. I often walk around these mountains in search of antiques.
Meng Dan: I never expected that those Treasure Hoarders would have their eyes on the same ruins that I had. Before I knew it, they'd caught and imprisoned me.
Meng Dan: Is there anything that you lack? Antiques, treasures, various knick-knacks, you name it! Well, as long as you want what I have to offer, of course.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Your goodwill is good enough for me.
Paimon: Wait a moment! Actually, we are looking for something!
Meng Dan: Oh? And what might that be?
Paimon: Do you have a box that can store presents? We'd like a pretty one... the kind that you can use to store snacks.
Meng Dan: Of course we do — how can one sell antiques without gift boxes? At Mingxing Jewelry, we have the best gift-wrapping service in the seven nations.
Meng Dan: Now, just give me a moment, and I'll let the boss know. You can go see her whenever you require that box.
Paimon: Great! Paimon's Sugar-Frosted Slime now comes in a beautiful package!
(Talk to Xingxi at Mingxing Jewelry)
Paimon: Hey there! A guy called Meng Dan told us that we could get a nice and shiny box from your store...
Xingxi: Uncle Meng already told me about it. Thank you both for saving him.
Xingxi: Many of the best goods in our store were found by Uncle Meng. If anything were to happen to him, it would be impossible for us to continue doing business.
Xingxi: Here, this container is itself an antique, with at least 140 years of history. It's already been cleaned... Will it do?
Paimon: Yup-yup-yup! It's great!
Paimon: Hang on a moment. Could we borrow one other thing?
Xingxi: Sure, please help yourselves — as long as it's on our shelves.
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍), this clay pot looks really awesome!
Paimon: If we use an antique as our mixing bowl, we should be able to make a great snack!
Paimon: It's done! The one and only Sugar-Frosted Slime! Carefully now. Into the box it goes, and dust it over with a bit more powdered sugar...
Xingxi: Oh yes. You might want to use these two freshly-picked flowers as decorations too.
Paimon: Woohoo! It looks beautiful!
Icon Dialogue Talk White (I'm still not sold on this gift idea...)
Paimon: Great! Now that we've put all that we've got into this box, let's go to the Jade Chamber to see Ningguang!
(Talk to Xingxi again)
Xingxi: Thanks for saving Uncle Meng. Please take care.
Xingxi: Well, now... time to clean that pot...
To the Jade Chamber
(Talk to Bu'yun at Yuehai Pavilion)
Paimon: (According to Keqing, this is what we should say...)
Paimon: Excuse me, do you sell the moon here?
Bu'yun: Yes. How many would you like?
Paimon: It is not convenient to speak of numbers here.
Bu'yun: Ah, well said. Please use this to ascend to the Chamber... Ah, yes. Speaking of which — are you two the guests that Lady Ningguang has arranged to meet with today?
Paimon: Yup!
Bu'yun: (And yet the code they used was not the one for the guests, but for the Yuheng. What's going on here...)
Ningguang: I've been waiting for you, returnee from Jueyun Karst.
Paimon: Ah, it's Ningguang!
Paimon: Since this is our first meeting, um, we've prepared a gift! Hope you like it?
Ningguang: Oh, for me? You have my thanks. It seems that I have made things difficult for you, considering that you were supposed to be my guests.
Paimon: Hehe... Oh no, it's nothing.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Nice place, this Jade Chamber.
Ningguang: Haha. I'm glad you like it too.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's my first time coming to a place this high up...
Ningguang: This palace floats in the skies, higher than the peak of any mountain. From this vantage point, one may survey all of Liyue.
Ningguang: I have been gathering the funds necessary to build it from the time I began learning the merchant's craft.
And since becoming the Tianquan, I have spared no effort in hiring the best craftsmen to constantly extend it...
Ningguang: At first, it was but the size of one room. Now, it is large enough to blot out the moon in the skies above Liyue.
Ningguang: One day, I believe it will overshadow all seven nations.
Icon Dialogue Talk White (This Tianquan does not lack for ambition...)
Ningguang: Not many from outside of Liyue earn the right to ascent to the Jade Chamber. But I have been in correspondence with the Acting Grand Master of the Knights of Favonius, who spoke highly of you.
Ningguang: As such, I have been putting eyes and ears out ever since you reached Liyue...
Ningguang: And I finally got wind of your movements when you were on the way to Wangshu Inn.
Paimon: ...Wait. Was Verr Goldet one of your people!?
Ningguang: Just Verr Goldet? ...No.
Ningguang: Everyone at Wangshu Inn is one of ours.
Paimon: @&%*!
Icon Dialogue Talk White We also ran into the Yuheng not long ago...
Ningguang: At the Guizhong Ballista, yes?
Paimon: Uh... you weren't peeking on us from the skies the whole time... were you!?
Ningguang: Haha... I fear that peeking would have been a little difficult from this altitude.
Ningguang: Our eyes and ears are more than sufficient. You two are very interesting people, after all. It would be natural to take an interest..
Icon Dialogue Talk White Keqing said that the Qixing would not wish ill on Rex Lapis.
Ningguang: Well, I wouldn't expect you to trust us, considering that you have had far more interactions with the adepti. The reason I invited you here was to clear up some misunderstandings.
Ningguang: I believe that you've heard of the Archon War?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Umm... Rings a bell.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Only in the broadest of strokes.
Ningguang: Many gods used to walk this earth, and many long wars were fought between them that did not abate until 2,000 years ago. Much blood was shed, and many lives were lost.
Ningguang: In the end, only seven victors remained standing in Teyvat. They build cities and nations on the corpses of the vanquished, and thus began the era of The Seven.
Ningguang: You can see Guyun Stone Forest from here, I trust? It is no natural rock formation — those are giant spears of rock, hurled by Rex Lapis during the war.
Ningguang: Beneath the spears lie those cast down by Rex Lapis in those days: gods that failed to seize the title of Archon.
Ningguang: Not only is it true that gods may die, but so too has the membership of the Seven changed over the last two millennia. Rex Lapis' passing is an unimaginable disaster for Liyue, but the order of The Seven will not collapse simply because of that.
Ningguang: Another Lord of Geo will arise sooner or later, yet how are we to forget Rex Lapis? When that time comes, the relationship between the people of Liyue and the gods and adepti will surely be different from before.
Ningguang: Even in the new era, the Liyue Qixing remain Rex Lapis' former subjects... Do you really think us capable of having played a part in his demise? Of lacking the foresight to see the certain repercussions?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Why hide the Exuvia, then?
Ningguang: Heh...
Ningguang: That day at Yujing Terrace — it was all so very sudden. Even I was caught completely off guard. You were there, you no doubt saw.
Ningguang: But our enemy has long lain hidden within the harbor. If we do not act against them now, they will surely gain the upper hand.
Ningguang: Hiding the Exuvia was a necessary maneuver to take the initiative back, to play the spider while our foes scurry about.
Paimon: Who's this "<QEN1>enemy<QEN1>" you're talking about?
Ningguang: What do you think, Traveler?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Is it "<QEN1>him<QEN1>"?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's "<QEN1>him,<QEN1>" isn't it?
Paimon: Eh? What are you two talking about?
Ningguang: Well answered.
Paimon: ...Huh!?
Ningguang: Hah... The scenery out here is fine indeed, but the wind is a little strong.
Our preparations to receive guests within are complete — so please, this way.
Inside the Jade Chamber
Paimon: Wowee! What a huge hall! Paimon's never seen such a fancy place before...
(Talk to Ningguang)
Ningguang: Be at ease, you two. Make yourselves at home if you wish.
Paimon: Can we really!?
Ningguang: I have invited you two here as friends. And when friends come over to play, our enjoyment comes first, naturally.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Is that what I think it is...?
Paimon: Ooh! Isn't this that legendary wall?
Ningguang: Why, you've kept your ear to the ground, I see.
Paimon: That's because even the storytellers are talking about it... Everyone's after a piece of paper from that wall. It's super famous!
Ningguang: That's because that wall records Liyue's secrets. Merchants have always been attracted to secrets.
Ningguang: But the secrets of the mercantile world are of no interest to you, are they, Traveler? You're rather special, really — and I think you're quite aware of that.
Ningguang: If possible, I'd like to have your trust.
Ningguang: But if you were to choose the more trustworthy person between myself and Keqing...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Well, between your orthodoxy and her heterodoxy...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'd go with Keqing and her skepticism of the divine.
Ningguang: Haha... You'd pick Keqing? I had a feeling.
Ningguang: I originally thought her a bit too... hard-headed. With someone of her character on the Qixing, I've had some extra messes to clean up behind the scenes.
Ningguang: But after she said those words: "<QEN1>The time of the adepti has long passed. If even the Liyue Qixing don't want to face that truth, then what future is there for Liyue...<QEN1>"
Ningguang: Well, I must say that quite a few of my doubts have been dispelled.
Ningguang: I won't deny that Rex Lapis' passing seems advantageous to us.
But for Liyue's sake, we cannot allow ourselves to be shackled by rumors of our usurpation of power.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I surmise that the Fatui has a hand in these rumors?
Ningguang: Indeed... It seems that you understood what I meant to say from the very beginning.
Ningguang: I called for the gag order and for the Exuvia to be hidden to temporarily stabilize the situation, and also to prevent something similar to the incident in Mondstadt.
Ningguang: With Rex Lapis' death, the Fatui have busied themselves with many clandestine actions beyond their diplomatic remit. As the Tianquan, one responsible for Liyue, I cannot be too concerned with appearances when opposing them.
Ningguang: Allowing the Rite of Parting to take place was also meant to buy some time for us to take control of Liyue's administration...
Paimon: Ugh... It's exactly as Zhongli said. The Qixing only provided the venue for the rite so they could use us for their own ends.
Paimon: Wait, that's right! Speaking of ends... Could Paimon say one other thing?
Ningguang: Of course.
Paimon: Paimon's heard that anyone who sends a greeting gift gets a little something in return... So, does that include us?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Seriously, Paimon? Seriously?
Ningguang: Hmm-hmm, It's quite alright. I like direct people.
Ningguang: Well, we have made quite a bit of trouble for you recently. How about this? You can pick any one object here as you please, and you may take it with you.
Paimon: Yay! Paimon was just waiting for you to say that! Let's see, what should we get...
Paimon: One of those sheets on that wall!
Icon Dialogue Talk White ???
Paimon: Don't look at Paimon like that! One of these sheets of paper will sell for crazy prices, even if it's only as large as Paimon's fingernail!
Paimon: Just imagine... how much Mora a whole, untorn sheet would sell for!
Paimon: Let's grab one!The biggest one!
(Grabbing a "<QEN1>paper snow<QEN1>")
Paimon: Huh? Well that was an easy search. The biggest sheet is right up there in the most obvious spot. Let's go with that one!
Paimon: La la-la la-la... Let's see what's written on it.
Paimon: Huh? There's a place marked with a circle on here. Ooh, could it be treasure!? Whatever it is, it better make us filthy rich! Let's see what's written over here...
Paimon: "<QEN1>Sigil<QEN1>"..."<QEN1>of Permission<QEN1>"... Mm-hmm and... "<QEN1>Fatui<QEN1>"... "<QEN1>research<QEN1>"..."<QEN1>copy<QEN1>"... Huh?
Paimon: Aw, that doesn't sound like treasure at all.
Paimon: This piece of paper shows that a Qixing spy discovered traces of classified Fatui research on the Sigil of Permission.
Paimon: Oh, Ningguang did say that the Fatui have been up to all kinds of mischief in the shadows of Liyue... Spreading rumors, wanting to get their hands on the archon's body, and what not.
Paimon: But research on the Sigil of Permission? Paimon wonders what they're up to.
Paimon: Speaking of which, there's also some connection between you and the Sigil of Permission, (‍Traveler‍). Seems there's still more for us to find out.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's all unfolding a little too perfectly.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ningguang is clearly trying to steer us there.
Paimon: Oh? You really think so?
Paimon: Well... should we not go, then?
Icon Dialogue Talk White No, what I mean is...
Paimon: Oh, so you're saying that it's precisely because we can't completely trust Ningguang that we should confirm the truth of what she says for ourselves.
Paimon: Hmm... That's way out of Paimon's league. Paimon thinks she's been nothing but good to us.
Paimon: Anyway, we'll see if you're on to something.
Paimon: Um, before we look for Zhongli at Dihua Marsh, let's go to the place marked out on these papers and see if the Fatui really are up to no good there.
(If you talk to Ningguang)
Ningguang: So, have you made your choice?
Ningguang: You don't have to confirm it with me. Just choose one and take it.
Ningguang: Afterwards, why not sit down for a while in the Jade Chamber, or have a short stroll?Rest is also an integral part of any journey.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Thank you for your hospitality.
Ningguang: Come now, there's no need to stand on ceremony. Loosen up a little.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's time we made a move. See you...
Ningguang: Alright then, I hope the next time we meet, you will either have already done the right thing... or, will be about to make the right call.
Part 3: Solitary Fragrance
You finally ascended to the Jade Chamber, where Ningguang was waiting for you.
She gracefully accepted Paimon's gift, and offered one in return.
You spoke at length about many things, deities, archons... and the Fatui...
Investigating the marked location
(Engage the Fatui)
Paimon: There really were Fatui at the location written down on this piece of paper!
Paimon: And, uh, they look really mad at us, too!
(Upon examining the Fatui's research)
Paimon: There are so many talismans here! And some stacks of blank paper, too! Hmm, what are they for?
Icon Dialogue Talk White It looks like they're copying the pattern on the talisman.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Maybe they're trying to reproduce a talisman.
Paimon: Paimon's seen this pattern before! But where...
Paimon: Oh, Paimon knows! It looks just like the Sigil of Permission that Childe gave you.
Paimon: Hmm, but how did a relic of the adepti end up in the hands of someone like Childe? Suspicious...
Icon Dialogue Talk White It's not just a relic...
Paimon: Oh, that's right. Cloud Retainer said that when the Lord of Geo created the Sigil of Permission, it wasn't to be used as some ol' relic...
Paimon: Talismans like that were once used in the Archon War to channel divine powers.
Paimon: Maybe the Fatui are copying the Sigil of Permission in hopes of achieving a similar effect?
Paimon: Being able to channel divine power in battle... Whew, that sounds pretty dangerous.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Seems the Fatui are definitely up to something.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Maybe this paper is only a snippet of a much bigger plan.
Paimon: And the plot thickens... We'll need to keep an eye on Childe, that's for sure.
Paimon: Hmm, alright, that's enough sticking around here. We gotta go meet up with Zhongli soon.
Paimon: The last stop on our Rite of Parting preparations tour is... Dihua Marsh!
Paimon: Let's go! Paimon hates being late!
(Approach Zhongli)
Zhongli: Right on time. I myself only arrived moments ago.
Zhongli: Did you enjoy your visit to the Jade Chamber?
Paimon: It was so biiig, and preetty, and expensive... Paimon's never seen such a fancy-schmancy place before!
Zhongli: Indeed. It's second to none in all of Liyue.
Zhongli: Then you met with Ningguang, I trust? What did you talk about with her?
Paimon: She's super rich and so generous. Paimon thinks she's very friendly!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Business people are always "<QEN1>friendly<QEN1>" when it suits their interests.
Paimon: Yeah, (‍his‍/‍her‍) take on Ningguang is quite different from Paimon's. (‍He‍/‍She‍) thinks that even the tactless Yuheng is more trustworthy than her.
Zhongli: Oh, so you also met with Keqing, then? What did she have to say?
Paimon: She said, "<QEN1>The time of the adepti has long passed. If even the Liyue Qixing don't want to face that truth, then what future is there for Liyue?<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Haha, no respect for the divine.
Zhongli: Indeed, contrary to the ever-bold Keqing, Ningguang is more of a businesswoman at heart, though they are both members of the Qixing.
Zhongli: Although she's friendly, there's no way of clearly discerning her true intentions.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ningguang is highly intelligent.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Ningguang is highly ambitious.
Zhongli: Yes, she has only relied on herself to rise to her current position. No ordinary person could ever achieve that.
Zhongli: It's said that she's the one behind the constant expansion of the Jade Chamber. It's the second most important thing to her. Even if she ever gave up the position of Tianquan, she would never give up the Jade Chamber.
Paimon: The Jade Chamber is only second? What's the most important thing to her then?
Zhongli: Why, Mora, of course.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Makes sense.
Icon Dialogue Talk White No surprises there.
Paimon: All Ningguang talked about was the Fatui this and the Fatui that...
She said that after Rex Lapis was murdered, the Fatui have constantly been trying to sink their fingers into Liyue and that they aren't to be trusted.
Zhongli: That is how the Fatui have always been. It doesn't surprise me in the least.
Icon Dialogue Talk White And now they are trying to reproduce the Sigil of Permission.
Zhongli: No matter what they may be planning, you must be careful when dealing with the Fatui. Always be on your guard.
Paimon: So is there anything we need to get for the Rite of Parting in Dihua Marsh?
Zhongli: Yes, as a matter of fact, there is. Today, we'll be gathering wild Glaze Lilies.
But why did we come all the way out here? Doesn't the garden in Yujing Terrace have some?
Even Qingce Village has Glaze Lilies...
Paimon: Oh right, Paimon remembers that Madame Ping is always tending to flowers. Maybe we could ask her!
Zhongli: No, those lilies have all been gardened by people. They won't do at all.
Zhongli: Dihua Marsh used to be full of Glaze Lilies. It is a sort of joyful flower that listens to human song.
Zhongli: Before the Archon War, Dihua Marsh was all dry land and fertile soil. But the war caused landslides and the land was flooded, turning it into the marsh you see now. Nearly all the Glaze Lilies were wiped out.
Zhongli: Of course, there are some kinds of flowers that have been preserved and gardened by people in the city. But very few people know that Glaze Lilies may still be found in the wild.
Zhongli: Wild Glaze Lilies have the strongest fragrance. If we want to follow the true tradition of the Rite of Parting, we must grind up the wild lilies and place the powder in a censer of Everlasting Incense.
Zhongli: But I'll need your assistance in gathering these flowers.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You mean you need me to pick them?
Zhongli: No, I need you to sing to them. Singing to the flowers will make them more fragrant.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So you need me... to sing?
Zhongli: ...That's correct. Your singing will surely bring out the strongest fragrance from the flowers.
Paimon: Uh... so how good is your singing, (‍Traveler‍)?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I can hold a tune.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm a pro. Just step back and listen!
Paimon: Really? Why doesn't Paimon believe you...
Zhongli: We'll only know once (‍he‍/‍she‍) starts singing.
(Upon entering the area)
Paimon: It's time to sing! Whenever you're ready!
Icon Dialogue Talk White *clears throat*...
(‍Traveler‍): ♪...♪♪♪♪...♪♪♪♪....♪....♪
(The three Cryo Whopperflowers awaken)
Paimon: Wh—What happened...!?
Paimon: These flowers are jumping... They look really angry! Is it... because you sang a song from Mondstadt that they don't understand here in Liyue?
Paimon: Those weren't Glaze Lilies! Glaze Lilies wouldn't hit people!
Icon Dialogue Talk White Those flowers put up quite a fight...
Zhongli: This little monster is known as a "<QEN1>Whopperflower.<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Hmm... Strange. These petals look interesting.
Zhongli: The Glaze Lilies used as a disguise were buried with the Whopperflower for too long. The result seems to have surprisingly potent medicinal value. Let's collect what we can of these petals.
Paimon: Well that's nice and all, but will those petals be useful for the Rite of Parting?
Zhongli: Unfortunately, no.
Paimon: Ugh, that's so lame...
Ganyu: Excuse me...
Ganyu: Are you searching for Glaze Lilies?
Paimon: Oh, hey! It's... what's her face... Ah, Paimon can't remember...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Greetings, Ganyu.
Ganyu: Hello, traveler. I'm surprised you still remember my name.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Greetings, Yangu.
Ganyu: "<QEN1>Yangu<QEN1>"? Wh—Who's that?
Ganyu: Eh... You've completely forgotten my name, haven't you?
Ganyu: Ah! That reminds me, how was your visit to the Jade Chamber?
Paimon: Well, it sure would've been better if you'd told us how to get up there!
Ganyu: Didn't I tell you the way!? Surely I did!
Paimon: Nope, we found the way on our own!
Icon Dialogue Talk White It isn't a secret, so perhaps you just assumed we knew?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Guess it was our fault for not asking.
Ganyu: Oh, I see.
Ganyu: (Uh-oh, I guess I really did forget to tell them...)
Paimon: Huh, something seems a little off about Ganyu...
Paimon: She's acting different from the first time we met... Where's her serious attitude now?
Ganyu: Ah, well, I met you at that time as an emissary of the Tianquan. But now, I am simply out on a stroll to see the flowers.
Paimon: You came all the way out here to see the flowers? Why not just enjoy the gardens of the city?
Ganyu: ...
Ganyu: Yujing Terrace is where Rex Lapis parted from this world. If I strolled through those lonely gardens now, I wouldn't be able to bear it.
Ganyu: Whenever my duties take me near Yujing Terrace these days, I draw the windows to block my view of the gardens.
Paimon: Oh... Sorry, we shouldn't have brought it up.
Ganyu: No, it's quite alright. I just haven't processed my emotions yet.
Ganyu: When the Archon War came to its end two thousand years ago, the first iteration of The Seven would gather in Liyue and drink with Rex Lapis. But five of those original seven had already passed before Rex Lapis — it's truly a changing of the guard.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So that means...
Ganyu: Yes. Now that the spirit of Rex Lapis has returned to the heavens, only Barbatos of Mondstadt remains of the first Seven.
Ganyu: The other five, including Inazuma's Raiden Shogun, are no longer the same friends from two thousand years ago.
Ganyu: Of the current Seven Archons, the youngest is Sumeru's God of Dendro. She is merely five hundred years old, whereas Rex Lapis was more than six thousand years old at the time of his passing.
Ganyu: This means that Liyue had been under Rex Lapis' rule from the moment it was first founded 3,700 years ago. The city has never had to bid farewell to its deity...
Zhongli: So, what do you think of this "<QEN1>farewell<QEN1>"?
Ganyu: Huh? This... This is a little sudden, I...
Ganyu: As a mortal, I've never dared to imagine a Liyue without Rex Lapis.
Ganyu: But as an adeptus... I think I will eventually come to grips with reality.
Since Rex Lapis has passed, the time of Liyue's contract with the gods and adepti has now reached its end.
Paimon: Huh? Did you just say, "<QEN1>as an adeptus<QEN1>"?
Ganyu: Yes, I... I am a mix of human and Qilin. Adeptus blood flows through my veins. I fought for Rex Lapis and the city of Liyue during the Archon War.
Ganyu: After the war ended, I signed a contract with Rex Lapis and took the position as secretary for the Qixing. I've continued those duties to this very day.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So you're half Qilin? That explains the horns!
Icon Dialogue Talk White So you're how old!? That explains the forgetfulness!
Ganyu: Well... uh, let's save that conversation for another day. You say that you are here looking for Glaze Lilies?
Ganyu: I also know where wild Glaze Lilies can be found. See, I've just picked one myself. Here, you may have it if you wish.
Zhongli: We dare not refuse it.
Paimon: Oh, so did you sing a song before you picked the lily?
Ganyu: Indeed, I did. I know this tradition well. In fact, I sang a local Liyue ballad to it.
Paimon: Wow, so you really know your stuff too! Thanks, Ganyu!
Ganyu: No, it is you who I should be thanking. If not for this chance meeting, I never thought that I would be able to contribute to the upcoming farewell for our ancient lord.
Ganyu: If you would excuse me, I should return to my work now. Good luck.
Zhongli: And that just about does it. Our preparations for the Rite of Parting are mostly finished.
Zhongli: Given the ease of picking Glaze Lilies, I think this was a fitting end to our tasks, in more ways than one.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Zhongli, you seem suited to working in agricultural development.
Paimon: Yeah, Paimon can already imagine him starting a business in Liyue.
Zhongli: Hah, I've had enough ventures in my life already.
Zhongli: Beginning a new undertaking is always difficult at first and requires no small amount of effort. And once business is at full steam, the stress of it all only wears away at you over time.
Zhongli: So you must be careful to take the time to step back and reexamine yourself.
If left unchecked, the wear and tear on your heart may go well past mending.
Paimon: Wow! See, Zhongli sounds like he's already seen it all!
Paimon: Alright, I think it's about time we head back to Liyue Harbor now.
(Upon reaching the entrance to Liyue Harbor)
Paimon: Huh, what happened? The city gate is swarming with Millelith and... the Fatui?
Zhongli: This atmosphere is highly abnormal. It seems as though something big has happened.
Zhongli: We should ask around a little, just to be safe.
(Talk to Felix)
Felix: Ah, you're the consultant to Wangsheng Funeral Parlor — Mr. Zhongli, I presume?
Felix: The Millelith are watching our every move now. These are desperate times, we mustn't act rashly.
Zhongli: Desperate times?
Felix: The adepti of Jueyun Karst are finally on the move.
Zhongli: Do they intend to exercise force?
Felix: Most likely. I've heard that some members of the Qixing have already gone to meet them...
Well, I say "<QEN1>meet,<QEN1>" but it's more like they're attempting to stall the adepti outside the city.
Felix: However, both sides were quite obstinate, and hit an impasse.
Zhongli: ...It seems inevitable, given the current situation.
Felix: The adepti do not acknowledge the Qixing, they only acknowledge the contracts of the Geo Archon. If the two sides come to blows, Liyue Harbor will be in no position to stop them.
Zhongli: Surely the Liyue Qixing are not the sort to give in so easily?
Felix: Hmph. Their bone-headedness is known throughout the lands. Yet it's because of that obstinacy that mortals and adepti are now on the verge of conflict.
Zhongli: And what now? How is it that the Fatui have come under fire?
Felix: Ugh... that's all Ningguang's doing...
Felix: She proclaimed that "<QEN1>in these tumultuous times, the Millelith must rein in the actions of the Fatui.<QEN1>"
Felix: Only now do they want to start keeping tabs on us? Huh! That's the Qixing for you!
Felix: Anyway, Mr. Zhongli, you're one of Childe's close associates. Please understand that your actions will reflect on us. Don't let anyone catch you off-guard.
Paimon: It looks like things are about to boil over in Liyue Harbor...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Is there anything we can do?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We can't just stand by and watch.
Zhongli: Do you intend to use your neutral identity as an intermediary between both sides? Or, will you use your sword to turn the balance?
Zhongli: Neither path is an easy one...
Felix: Oh, by the way, Mr. Zhongli. We've heard that the Wangsheng Funeral Parlor has also been caught up in all this.
They're currently squaring off with the authorities at the gates.
Zhongli: Things are taking a turn for the worse...
Zhongli: I'm afraid I must leave now to handle things back at Wangsheng Funeral Parlor. I hope that Director Hu has been able to keep things under control for the moment.
Zhongli: Consider your next course of action carefully, (‍Traveler‍). If you're trying to prevent an explosion, it may be wisest to look for the fuse first.
Paimon: Phew... Having connections with the Fatui seems to be quite the double-edged sword.
Paimon: So what did Zhongli mean by looking for the "<QEN1>fuse<QEN1>"?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Childe.
Icon Dialogue Talk White That ginger guy.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You know, Mr. More-Money-Than-Sense.
Paimon: Ooh, Paimon gets it!
If there's anyone that wants to see the whole city turned upside down, it's definitely him.
Paimon: He must be waiting for the moment when no one is watching to do something really bad!
Paimon: But, where could we find him now?
Paimon: Where would he go at a time like this?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Follow me.
Icon Dialogue Talk White There's only one place he would go.
(Talk to Felix again, optional)
Felix: The Liyue Qixing... to think that they'd go for us Fatui the first chance they got...
Felix: Once the adepti send the Qixing packing, we'll just set up foreign relations with them instead!
Part 4: Heart of Glaze
At Ningguang's advice, you verified the Fatui's schemes regarding the Sigil of Permission before continuing to help Zhongli prepare for the rite.
You met Ganyu once again at Dihua Marsh before returning to Liyue Harbor — only to find that things in the city seem to be spiraling out of control.
Paimon: Wow... This is the Golden House?
Paimon: It looked impressive enough from the outside... But who would've guessed that it was even fancier on the inside... and so full of Mora!!!
Paimon: This is where all of Teyvat's Mora is minted, right? In that case, maybe they won't notice if a few Mora go missing...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Touch a single Mora and we're done for!
Icon Dialogue Talk White If it were that easy, this place would have been emptied long ago.
Paimon: Ooh, so it's a trap. Tricky, tricky... Good thing Paimon's got you here!
Paimon: But even if we can't take any, we can still have a closer look, right?
Paimon: Or better yet, take a nap on top of a mountain of Mora! It's like a dream come true!
Icon Dialogue Talk White We'd better check on the Exuvia first.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Something feels amiss here.
Paimon: Oh, right! Back to business!
Paimon: It's quiet... Too quiet. Surely someone's gotta be guarding something as important as the Exuvia.
Paimon: Huh!? (‍Traveler‍), look! What happened here?
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Millelith...
Icon Dialogue Talk White They've been knocked unconscious!
Paimon: Uh-oh, Paimon smells trouble!
Paimon: Quick!We have to go make sure that the Exuvia is alright.
(Upon approaching the Exuvia)
???: You've already fulfilled your task as guides, so why do you still linger here? Haven't you already seen enough trouble for today?
Paimon: Huh? Who's there?
Childe: If you were Fatui, I imagine that you would be entitled to a generous reward from the Tsaritsa herself.
Childe: But now, you're nothing but dross — and you're in my way.
Icon Dialogue Talk White How did you find out it was here?
Childe: Hmm, where should I start? Well, I've never been one to beat around the bush, you know. But who could have possibly guessed that the God of Geo would mysteriously perish the very moment I arrived in Liyue, and that the Exuvia would subsequently be hidden away?
Childe: If it weren't for that lovely little Rite of Parting ceremony you put together, it would have taken me a whole lot longer to get the information I needed.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Looks like I was just in time, then.
Childe: Hah! Although I'm deeply grateful to you that I was able to effortlessly find this secret location...
Childe: Don't you think that trying to stop me now would just be wasted effort?
Childe: Stopping the Mora mints, hiding away the Exuvia... Hahaha, the Qixing are really pulling out all the stops this time...
Paimon: So you've been planning to take the Gnosis from inside the Exuvia all along!?
Childe: As one of the Eleven Fatui Harbingers, it's my duty to see the will of the Tsaritsa fulfilled.
Childe: She will get that which she desires.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Not if I have anything to say about it.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I won't allow you to get near the Exuvia.
Childe: Hah! I'm not asking for your blessing, and there's nothing you can do to stop me anyway.
Childe: The time for discussion and diplomacy has already passed. I mean, if it were up to me, I would have skipped that stage to begin with... but I'm willing to do as the Tsaritsa deems fit.
Childe: Either way — we now come to my favorite part.A simple pleasure, and one that I am oh-so-delighted to be sharing with you...
Childe: The battle.
Paimon: Battle? So you're the type that goes looking for trouble, huh?
Childe: Haha, you could say that.
Childe: When Signora offended the deities outside the Cathedral in Mondstadt, she swiftly left the scene once her mission was accomplished.
Childe: Instead of confronting you directly, she chose to rely on the snow and ice to make her escape. She wouldn't want the Knights to come running towards the sound of battle, now, would she?
Childe: When she faces a worthy opponent, she will prioritize her mission, weigh the outcomes, and consider the consequences of her actions...
Childe: But as for me, the greatest pleasure of being a Harbinger lies in crossing blades with strong opponents.
Paimon: We won't let what happened in Mondstadt ever happen again!
Childe: Oh? So you intend to fight me? Good. I won't kill you, Traveler. I'll just play along — to feel the thrill of battle!
Childe: Besides, you could never defeat me. Not even in your wildest dreams. But hey, try to relish the fight anyway. Because if you ask me... without that, what else is there?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I could never defeat you!? You're completely delusional.
Childe: Ahahahaha!
Childe: Fighting talk, I love it! Now, let's see you live up to it.
(Battle starts)
Childe: This chance is hard to come by, so show me all you've got.
Childe: So very few ever get the chance to square off with a Fatui Harbinger.
Childe: So come now, amuse me... and don't you dare disappoint.
Childe: Good! No wonder Signora was so wary of you.
Childe: Well, that just means I can go all out! Brace yourself, this is about to get tough...
Childe: Now, show me what you can do against the might of a Harbinger!
(A cinematic plays)
Presuming that you beat him to the Gnosis, Childe becomes enraged, activates his Foul Legacy Transformation, and continues to do battle with you...
Childe: Not bad. Your swordsmanship is quite impressive.
Childe: But, that's about as far as you'll get.
When the dust settles, however, Childe is nowhere to be found... Only to reveal himself in front of the Exuvia)
Childe: Haha...
Childe: Didn't think you had that card hidden up your sleeve...
Paimon: You were just playing us to get close to the Exuvia!
Childe: Oh, quiet down. Stop acting like some wide-eyed recruit.
Childe: You've seen this world. You of all people should know...
Childe: This should have been expected.
Childe: Well then, I'll be taking Morax's Gnosis now!
Childe: ...Huh?
Childe: Hahaha... I see. Well, this is most unexpected.
Childe: You... You beat me to it, didn't you?
(Childe undergoes a transformation)
Tartaglia - Childe - The Eleventh of the Eleven Fatui Harbingers
Childe: Not bad!
Childe: But this is going to cost you!
Paimon: Aaaah!!!
Childe: You got to the Gnosis ahead of me, didn't you!?
Childe: Did you simply move faster? Or... did you leak the information regarding the Golden House to me on purpose?
Childe: No matter. Hand the Gnosis over. Now. Don't make me take it from you.
Paimon: W—We didn't take it!
(Upon defeat)
Childe: *panting*
Paimon: Look! Childe's back to normal again.
Childe: Ugh, well then... time to cool off.
Childe: It seems the burden of the Foul Legacy Transformation was too great for my body. I lacked the opportunity to think this through...
Childe: And now that I consider the matter more carefully, you never had any chance of beating me to the Gnosis.
Childe: You had no connection to the Gnosis, no matter where it had been taken.
Paimon: That's what we've been trying to tell you! We didn't take it!
Childe: Your show of ability today far surpasses that of Signora's initial assessment of you in Mondstadt. Tell me, how could that be?
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Because I'm collecting the powers of the seven elements...)
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Because I'm gradually restoring my former power...)
Childe: You already know the answer, don't you? I can see it in your eyes.
Childe: But if that is a secret you wish to keep, I guess I'll just have to curb my curiosity.
Childe: This battle has already left me satisfied.
Childe: Anyone who strives as I do to grow stronger shall be called a friend, even if our friendship can only be shown in battle against one another.
Paimon: Pretty sure that's not the normal way to make friends.
Childe: Unfortunately, I must bring this amiable conversation to an end. My quest still beckons.
Childe: Given that the Gnosis wasn't taken by anyone, then we must look once again to the beginning. Perhaps it was never in the Exuvia to begin with.
Childe: In fact, it might be that the Exuvia was just a diversion of sorts.
Paimon: What? So you mean that...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Rex Lapis still lives?
Icon Dialogue Talk White The corpse was fake?
Childe: Yes, it appears so. Interesting to say the least...
Childe: It seems that the guardian deity of the capital of commerce is also well-versed in little maneuvers beyond the boundaries of contracts.
Childe: As such, we must now look to our backup plan.
Paimon: Backup plan?
Childe: I had hoped it would never come to this, for the weak will be swept away in the process.
Childe: The truth is, the world belongs to those who pursue strength. I seldom willingly involve myself with the weak.
Childe: Unfortunately, we cannot be picky about our methods as Fatui Harbingers. Children must all learn to eat their vegetables sometime.
Paimon: So, what are you planning to do?
Childe: I will awaken the god that lies dormant beneath Guyun Stone Forest.
Paimon: A god!?
Childe: Osial, Overlord of the Vortex, who was defeated by Morax the Geo Archon in the Archon War, and who has remained pinned beneath the waves by the Geo Archon's stone spears ever since.
Childe: If such an ancient god were to be unleashed upon Liyue Harbor, defenseless without the protection of its deity...
Childe: Do you think the cunning Rex Lapis would just stand aloof and watch the ensuing destruction?
Paimon: But... the Archon War ended two thousand years ago! How could an ancient god appear in a world now overseen by The Seven?
Childe: Simple! I've already prepared the means to awaken it.
Paimon: Hey! Those are Sigils of Permission!
Paimon: Oh, Paimon remembers now! The Fatui have been researching them...
Icon Dialogue Talk White I saw your research with my own eyes.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You've been trying to duplicate them.
Childe: Indeed. The one that was given to you was just a by-product of our research.
Childe: With the power of so many Sigils of Permission concentrated in one place, along with that which was bestowed upon me as a Harbinger by our Tsaritsa... Breaking the subduing might of the Geo Archon's spears for a time should be no obstacle.
Childe: Using the powers of ancient gods in such a situation fails to interest me and is largely against my principles.
Childe: But knowing that such an action will not only force the Geo Archon to show its hand, but you as well... That makes matters a little more intriguing.
(A storm begins and Osial is released)
Let's see — will the nation that has lost its deity be swallowed up by an ancient malice once more?
Childe: If you wish to drown together with the people of Liyue
Childe: You're free to stay and enjoy the show!
(Childe flies out, Paimon and the Traveler follow)
Paimon: Huh? He—He's already gone!
Paimon: That guy is fast...
Paimon: Wha—What's going on!?
Part 5: Turning Point
The adepti faced off against the Qixing outside the city. Just as things were coming to a head, you went to the Golden House to intercept Childe as he attempted to seize the Gnosis, only to find yet another twist: The Gnosis was never at the Golden House to begin with.
Childe swiftly switched to his backup plan, attempting to force the Geo Archon to make an appearance by summoning an ancient god with Fatui-forged Sigils of Permission...
Paimon: *panting* Paimon's exhausted...
Paimon: If we hadn't happened to see the Jade Chamber flying over just as we came out of the Golden House, we really wouldn't have known which way to go...
Paimon: Whew, did we make it in time? Is the Overlord of the Vortex still in the sea? It hasn't destroyed Liyue yet, has it?
Xiao: What... are you doing here?
Paimon: Huh... Hold on! It's the adepti! What are you doing on the Jade Chamber? Paimon thought you were arguing with the Qixing... Is the fighting over?
Ningguang: Faced with a calamity of such magnitude, we have agreed to put our differences aside for now and unite against this common enemy.
Moon Carver: Hmph!
Paimon: Oh, Paimon gets it... So, how do you plan to defend Liyue?
Paimon: Uhh... just seeing this Overlord of the Vortex guy puts a pit in Paimon's tummy, even from all the way out here.
Keqing: It's not just you. We've got new Millelith recruits who can't even stand at attention without shaking. The force of an ancient god's presence seems to be too much for ordinary people to handle.
Keqing: ...Which is why we must stop that monster before it gets any closer to Liyue Harbor!
Paimon: So the Archon War was fought two thousand years ago against enemies like that thing? Now that's scary...
Paimon: So will the power of the Qixing, Millelith, and Adepti gathered here be enough to stop that god?
Ningguang: We've already discussed this together, and our conclusion is... not necessarily.
Paimon: What!? But all of you are supposed to be the guardians of Liyue. Can't you think of something?
Cloud Retainer: One certainly could.
Paimon: Eh?
Cloud Retainer: The Qixing did once research the matter of the Guizhong Ballista when it piqued their fancy.
Cloud Retainer: And as fate would have it, one, who did craft the Guizhong Ballista with one's own hands, is here...
Cloud Retainer: For what could you mortals ever learn of adepti mechanisms? Yet it would take one but a little tinkering to turn this ballista into an engine of war beyond your wildest thoughts.
Ningguang: Heh, I suppose this is one blessing from the adepti that we should be thankful for.
Ningguang: So be it. We shall use the upgraded Guizhong Ballista to fight off that god. All the adepti here can lend their strength to man it.
Ningguang: We haven't a moment to spare. Our battle begins now!
Cutscene's Travel Log summary:
Faced with the terrifying might of the Overlord of the Vortex, you fight bitterly but are ultimately unable to protect the Guizhong Ballistas. The Overlord of the Vortex, however, is also badly wounded. To protect Liyue, Ningguang sacrifices the Jade Chamber, plunging it into the ocean and successfully suppressing the evil god.
Paimon: The Fatui!
Paimon: They're attacking the Guizhong Ballista!
Millelith Soldier: The three adepti are manning the Guizhong Ballistas. Do not let the Fatui disturb their work!
Keqing: All able Millelith, with me!
Paimon: Let's go help too!
Cloud Retainer: We adepti have not faced a god in several millennia.
Cloud Retainer: Hmph. Let one see what you are made of then. What strength remains within you, one wishes to witness!
Paimon: What is that!?
Xiao: That is Osial's divine power. I am... very familiar with it.
Xiao: Be careful not to get hit.
Millelith Soldier: The Fatui... their attacks are unrelenting!
Ningguang: Ha, how daring. Snezhnaya's diplomats will answer for this afterward. Every last one.
Paimon: The ancient god's attacking again!
Paimon: There are so many Fatui, too! We can't hold—
Madame Ping: Hahaha, were you about to say "<QEN1>we can't hold them,<QEN1>" children?
Madame Ping: Don't lose heart. Here, take this.
Paimon: This is... adeptal energy!?
Paimon: (‍Traveler‍), that light from your body... It's like that time in Jueyun Karst...
Paimon: Wow, it's Madame Ping's Shockwave! This granny's really strong!
Ganyu: With the blood of the Qilin, I guard you against evil.
Ganyu: Cast your fear of injury by the wayside and fight with all your might. I too did this during the Archon War.
Paimon: Huh... So this is what Ganyu's like in a fight...
Xiao: My name means "<QEN1>swiftness.<QEN1>"
Xiao: Take my power, and run as I do.
Paimon: We're— going— too— faaaaast—!
Madame Ping: Child, you are strong in body and spirit. Perhaps you can withstand three forms of adeptal energy at once...
Ganyu: This will hurt a little... Please bear with us!
Xiao: Once you've adapted, try to use them in battle.
Ganyu: Exercise caution! I fear that the god's power has reached its peak...
Keqing: In other words, if we hold here, there's nothing worse to come, right?
Keqing: The Fatui's numbers are thinning!
Millelith Soldier: Fight on, comrades! Once we've finished this lot off, the adepti will be able to deal with the god in peace!
Moon Carver: The interlopers are no more
Moon Carver: Now we may commit ourselves fully!
Paimon: Ah! It's working!
Paimon: We just need to keep this up!
(The adepti catch those who fall and return to the Jade Chamber landing)
Xiao: Be careful now
Cloud Retainer: The Guizhong Ballista is destroyed...
Cloud Retainer: Without its covering fire, retaliation shall be difficult
Ganyu: But the Jade Chamber is our last line of defense!
Ganyu: We can't give another inch... no matter what...
Ningguang: I have... another idea
Ganyu: What do you mean, Lady Ningguang?
Ningguang: I'll sacrifice the Jade Chamber
Cloud Retainer: What is the meaning of this?
Xiao: ...I understand
Ningguang: Traveler, lend me a hand
Ningguang: Farewell, old friend...
Ningguang: ...Goodbye for now
Ningguang: Let us meet again in the future
(The Traveler plunges a sword into the Jade Chamber and it plummets into Osial)
Part 6: The Fond Farewell
The ancient god was subdued once again following a fierce battle and much sacrifice.
The dust settles, and your journey in Liyue is reaching its conclusion with the Rite of Parting.
But before that, there are still some mysteries regarding the Geo Archon that need unraveling.
Paimon: Is it... finally over?
Moon Carver: The ominous aura of that monster has indeed begun to fade.
Moon Carver: The effects of the Sigil of Permission last but a short time.
Moon Carver: It will be some time before the Overlord of the Vortex can make any waves again.
Ningguang: We are indebted to you for your assistance. If the adepti hadn't happened to be here, the future of Liyue Harbor would surely have been in great jeopardy...
Cloud Retainer: Hmph, save your flattery. We didn't just "<QEN1>happen<QEN1>" to be here... Surely you won't pretend to have forgotten the reason for which we came?
Madame Ping: Come now, there's no need for such harsh words, Cloud Retainer.
Madame Ping: I've heard that when Ningguang began learning to do business, she had already started setting aside part of her then-limited income in preparation for building the Jade Chamber.
Madame Ping: At first, it was only the size of a small room. But with continued expansion, it has become the palace that lies before you now.
Madame Ping: It is a testament to Ningguang's entire life, both as a businesswoman and as the backbone of the Liyue Qixing.
Madame Ping: Seeing the Jade Chamber destroyed in the defense of Liyue means much to her.
To me, such cooperation and sacrifice deserves at least some recognition, don't you agree?
Ningguang: Well, I was really hoping you would say that such sacrifice could at least be used as some leverage in our negotiations.
Madame Ping: ...Heh.
Ningguang: Thank you all for hearing me out. We know very well why the adepti came here today... But please forgive us, we cannot yield to your wishes.
Moon Carver: Oh?
Ningguang: 3,700 years... According to our records, the adepti signed a contract with Rex Lapis to protect Liyue 3,700 years ago.
Ningguang: Even to this very day, Liyue and its lands have stood the test of time, immovable as stone, just as it was thousands of years before. This is truly no small feat.
Ningguang: But that does not mean that the Liyue of today is the same city as it was all those years ago.
Ningguang: Do not merely cast your protective gaze upon the land. Instead, focus your sights on our city and each of the citizens that dwell within it.
Moon Carver: Are you questioning our means of protecting Liyue?
Mountain Shaper: Hmm...
Ningguang: I mean no offense. I simply hope that our adepti forebearers would see Liyue in a new light.
Cloud Retainer: Hah, "<QEN1>forebearers<QEN1>" you say. One doubts you would be fit to be part of such a lineage...
Ningguang: This morning, Rex Lapis appeared to me in a dream.
Cloud Retainer: What?
Ningguang: In the dream, I yearned to tell him that we Qixing, though mortal, are equally bound to the contract. Each passing generation of the Qixing leaves many things of value to be inherited by the next generation.
Ningguang: I also thought to tell him how the past generations of Qixing had strove under his rule to survive in our mortal world, establishing a network of contracts which has since come to be known as "<QEN1>trade.<QEN1>"
Ningguang: But I dared not speak. I could only gaze at him in silence until the moment I awoke.
Paimon: Aw, Ningguang...
Icon Dialogue Talk White We're all on the same side here...
Cloud Retainer: Yet another perspective... What are you trying to say, Outlander?
Icon Dialogue Talk White When there is discord between the guardians and those they were meant to defend...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Harmony becomes very difficult to restore.
Paimon: Right, that's something that happened in Mondstadt — it's a story about the Four Winds and the people of the Anemo Archon.
Paimon: The Anemo Archon sought to quell the strife between the two sides, because he believed that such conflict would only scar the hearts of both and that nothing good would come of it...
Icon Dialogue Talk White This is what we learned in the City of Freedom.
Keqing: Each of the Seven Nations has its own scars from the past.
Mountain Shaper: Though your point is the very height of simplicity...
Mountain Shaper: As adepti, we've become a laughingstock, to be chastised thus by an outlander who has lent us such succor.
Madame Ping: Alright, alright. Didn't Ningguang suggest that we should focus on the city and each of its citizens? I know I already have, so why not see for yourselves?
Fengyan: I apologize for appearing in full armor. I'm afraid I cannot show the proper courtesies.
Moon Carver: And who are you?
I have come to extend my thanks to the adepti.
Fengyan: I thought this battle would perhaps be my last. But thanks to the aid of the adepti, our forces were not as badly battered as I feared we might be.
Fengyan: Although I am a mere mortal soldier, I promise to hold the line and never betray the grace given to us by the illuminated adepti this day.
Moon Carver: ...
Changchang: Huh? Why does everyone look so down? Didn't we just beat that big monster?
Madame Ping: Hahaha! Weren't you frightened, dear? It was quite the predicament...
Changchang: I wasn't afraid. All the strong Millelith guards were there, and those powerful heroes with their Visions were there... Everyone was there!
Changchang: When danger is near, everyone always protects me. And the rest of the time, they make fun toys, and tasty snacks, and... and loads of things that make the harbor so pretty!
Changchang: Thanks for protecting Liyue Harbor! Please come visit us for the next Lantern Rite!
Xiao: Unfortunately, we wouldn't be able to participate.
Changchang: Huh?
Xiao: Because we are adepti.
Changchang: Oh, okay... It must be hard being an adeptus.
Paimon: Aww...
Madame Ping: You see, this is what Liyue is like today.
Madame Ping: The country of contracts is grateful to the adepti for their protection.
But it is no longer necessary for the city to rely on the adepti's power to solve every little niggling matter.
Madame Ping: Although their blood is weak, there is still strength to be found in those we call mortals...
Madame Ping: The time of contracts between gods and Liyue has long since passed. Now is the time of contracts between Liyue and its people.
Mountain Shaper: Hmm, seeing the port around us now, it is hard not to feel a bit out of place... wouldn't you say so, Cloud Retainer?
Cloud Retainer: Your line of inquiry is askew. One did not spearhead this expedition to Liyue Harbor...
Paimon: Hmm... seems like the adepti have had a change of heart.
Icon Dialogue Talk White They've listened to what the people have said.
Icon Dialogue Talk White And they're trying to understand things from their perspective.
Xiao: Let us return now.
Moon Carver: ...Eager to leave, Conqueror of Demons?
Madame Ping: Hehehe...
Mountain Shaper: Yes, one understands what the Conqueror of Demons means.
The city of Liyue has changed much after our long separation.
Mountain Shaper: One fears that by the time one finally grasps the new contracts of Liyue, you humans would have once again changed the place beyond recognition.
Mountain Shaper: Fair enough. Away we shall, and return whence we came...
Moon Carver: Hmph...
Moon Carver: Since we adepti have consensus, then one shall persist no further.
Moon Carver: But how will we ensure that the Liyue Qixing will not simply exploit their power once we depart? In my view, that is still a thing to be guarded against...
Ningguang: *chuckles*
Madame Ping: Alright, Moon Carver. You needn't worry. It seems to me that this right of supervision is best left to the people of Liyue.
Paimon: Whew... Looks like the conflict between humans and adepti was avoided. All's well that ends well, huh?
Icon Dialogue Talk White You can say that again...
Icon Dialogue Talk White The adepti were quite reasonable in the end...
Paimon: Oh, right! It's nice that we've got peace and all, but we're forgetting one thing!
Paimon: Childe wanted to unleash the god so he could lure Rex Lapis out!
Paimon: But we were able to handle the Overlord of the Vortex on our own...
So Rex Lapis never showed up!
Paimon: Oh, and speaking of that — don't we still need to get to the bottom of that archon's "<QEN1>death,<QEN1>" too?
Paimon: Paimon doesn't get it... But, isn't the strongest lead we have the adepti-less Rite of Parting that we're organizing?
Paimon: No idea where Zhongli's gone. Let's ask for him at Wangsheng Funeral Parlor.
(Talk to the Ferrylady)
Ferrylady: Is there anything I can do for you two? I'm afraid that Wangsheng Funeral Parlor isn't in the best state to receive guests.
Paimon: We've come to see Zhongli. Could you please tell him we're here?
Ferrylady: Unfortunately, Zhongli isn't here at the moment. It seems he went to Northland Bank.
Paimon: Doesn't the Northland Bank belong to the Fatui?
Paimon: Last time we saw Zhongli was before we went to the Golden House...
Paimon: Do you think he doesn't know about the attack on Liyue? Visiting the Fatui at a time like this could only mean more trouble!
Paimon: We had better go and make sure that everything is okay.
(Talk to the Ferrylady again)
Ferrylady: Come to think of it, I wonder what business Mr. Zhongli has at the Northland Bank? He didn't tell me, either...
Northland Bank
Childe: You call this "<QEN1>cooperation between Harbingers<QEN1>"? Cooperation involves communication, you know...
Signora: Hehe, don't take it to heart, Childe. Besides, aren't you happy that you got to skip the formalities and bring chaos to the land? I'm sure you must've enjoyed that...
Signora: ...Oh, it seems that some of your friends have arrived.
Paimon: Hey, it's Zhongli and Childe! And... you! You're also one of the Harbingers...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Signora!
Signora: Haha, it's you two. I believe we've met once before... In the City of Bards, was it? I'm glad you still remember my name.
Signora: Ah, right. I imagine that it must have been rather hard to forget watching helplessly as something precious was snatched away from your friend.
Icon Dialogue Talk White (Breathe... Just stay calm.)
Icon Dialogue Talk White I still have time to take it back.
Paimon: No, don't let her get to you, (‍Traveler‍)...
Paimon: You've yet to gather the powers of all seven elements, and our last battle at the Golden House was almost more than you could handle...
Paimon: So it might be best to keep things peaceful this time, seeing that two of the Harbingers are here.
Childe: Well, if it isn't (‍Traveler‍). This is our first time seeing each other since Liyue was nearly wiped off the map. This is certainly a bit... awkward, wouldn't you say?
Paimon: Hmph, Paimon knew that we should never have trusted a Fatui Harbinger!
Childe: Aw, now don't say that. Sure, I may have misled you, but I never had anything against you personally...
Childe: Besides, I thought we were getting along quite well together, didn't you? Except for that little tussle we had at the end... Haha.
Childe: Nothing personal, we just have... different views, that's all. Of course, you may very well hold this against me, but that's up to you...
Childe: The real deceivers here are Signora and Zhongli... curse them for leading me on.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Zhongli tricked you?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Signora and Zhongli?
Childe: So actually, I think—
Signora: Stop wasting time, Childe. There'll be plenty of time to chat once I'm through here.
Signora: You remember the agreement, Morax. Now, if you would be so kind... The Gnosis, please.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Agreement?
Icon Dialogue Talk White Gnosis?
Paimon: What in the world are you talking about!?
Zhongli: The contract is fulfilled. That which thou seeketh is now bestowed unto thee, for my promise is solid as stone.
Signora: Hmph, how sanctimonious...
Icon Dialogue Talk White So Zhongli is actually Rex Lapis?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I mean, I did have my suspicions...
Paimon: What! So you're the Lord of Geo!?
Paimon: No, wait! That's an exciting twist and all — but why give the Gnosis to the Fatui!?
Zhongli: I do not give it for free. I give it as agreed upon in the contract... for it is a matter solely between the Tsaritsa and I.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'm afraid I don't understand...
Icon Dialogue Talk White And why did you feign your death?
Paimon: Yeah, you don't think you went a little bit too far with that whole fake death thing!? Everyone was preparing the ceremony for you when splat, this big dragon falls out of the sky and all of Liyue goes into an uproar. Talk about a disaster!
Signora: Hehe... Gathering all the forces that had been bubbling behind the scenes, and then stirring them together in a pot that was bound to boil over... That's what he wanted to see, am I right?
Paimon: Wait... what?
Zhongli: Perhaps it's best that I explain.
Zhongli: As you know, I've dwelt upon this world for more than six thousand years. It is now 3,700 years ago that I founded Liyue together with the adepti.
Zhongli: Even boulders that can withstand whirlpools will erode with the passing of time. I kept convincing myself that cracks had not begun to form and that the end of my time had not yet come.
Zhongli: Until one drizzly day, as I was strolling along the harbor, I heard a merchant tell one of his workers, "<QEN1>You've finished your duties, go ahead and call it a day.<QEN1>"
Zhongli: I stood motionless among the crowds, asking myself, "<QEN1>Have I already finished my duties?<QEN1>"
Paimon: Oh, Zhongli...
Zhongli: But as I began to consider relinquishing my divine role, I soon discovered that many reasons still remained to not hastily depart.
Zhongli: Was Liyue, the city I had dwelt in for so long, already prepared to enter its next age? I decided that a test was needed in order to reveal the answer.
Zhongli: So I feigned my own death, and gathered the cast of Childe, the adepti, and the Liyue Qixing to play their roles together on the stage that was Liyue.
Icon Dialogue Talk White So, were you satisfied with the finale?
Zhongli: Indeed, I was. The Gnosis which I had kept for so many years suddenly seemed to have lost its meaning.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Let me guess — you had another plan in case it all burned down.
Zhongli: That's right, which is why I continued to safeguard the Gnosis until now.
Paimon: So you mean that if the chaos ever reached the point of no return, you would simply appear and use your divine powers to bring Liyue back under control?
Signora: Of course. And it would have been all too easy for him, too.
Signora: Just as a child quickly matures after losing their parents, so has Liyue matured when faced with the death of its deity...
Zhongli: In the end, the resolution to all that has transpired was even more satisfactory than I could have hoped for.
Zhongli: Take the adepti, for instance. Owing to their years of seclusion, they were the least informed. Yet, when faced with a crisis, they, commendably, showed the greatest amount of restraint possible. Not only did they manage to co-operate with the Qixing, but in the end, they even made efforts to understand the hearts of the people.
Zhongli: Credit is also due to Signora, the emissary dispatched by the Cryo Archon to fulfill our contract. At my request, she kept everything she knew in strict confidence — this despite the eavesdropping ears of her colleague, Childe.
Zhongli: This meant I could remain as Zhongli, even having the chance to fulfill the age-old traditions of Liyue in this mortal form. Thank you for joining me on this journey, Traveler.
Zhongli: All of these things turned out as I had planned. There is only one thing that I had not anticipated... and that was the conduct of the Liyue Qixing.
Zhongli: I had expected them to do no more than the adepti... To come to the defense of Liyue. But when all was said and done...
Zhongli: They seized the opportunity to supplant Liyue's divine protectors, and used the subsequent power vacuum left by my death to quickly gain complete control of Liyue.
Paimon: Huh? That doesn't sound good at all!
Zhongli: Hah... On the contrary, I think it is excellent. I had always feared that it was too soon for them to take over from me, and it was also that which I longed for the most. As such, this is the best parting gift anyone could have given this god of old.
Childe: Hey, what about me? Doesn't anyone feel the least bit of remorse for deceiving me? You've practically kept me in the dark!
Signora: Heh, I think that thanks would be more appropriate. You certainly played no small part in all of this... Wreaking havoc and turning the city upside down. The Lord of Geo ought to thank you for your performance, if anything.
Signora: If you hadn't created the pressure of a battle between mortals, adepti and a god, the lump of coal resting in the hands of the Geo Archon — Liyue — would never have been able to become a dazzling diamond of a city.
Childe: Huh? Just whose side are you on, mocking me like that? Are you itching for a fight?
Icon Dialogue Talk White We were both equally fooled.
Childe: Be that as it may, you've come out of this as the hero of Liyue. I, on the other hand, will be forever proscribed as a disturber of the peace, no?
Icon Dialogue Talk White You've really embarrassed yourself this time.
Childe: Hey! Haven't you learned the Liyue saying? "<QEN1>Don't always call it as you see it<QEN1>"!
Signora: Heh... Well then, with the Gnosis in my possession, I have no use for such idle chatter. We should return to Zapolyarny Palace and seek an audience with Her Majesty, the Tsaritsa. Come, Childe.
Childe: Ugh, fine... I'll meet you there later. I'm not sharing a boat with the likes of you.
Signora: Hmph, do as you wish.
Zhongli: Now then, is there anything else you wish to ask me?
Icon Dialogue Talk White I'd like to know what the Cryo Archon offered you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White What could possibly be worth a Gnosis?
Paimon: Right! As Zhongli always told us, "<QEN1>a good trade is a fair trade.<QEN1>" Paimon has no idea what could be a good trade for a Gnosis.
Zhongli: Realistically speaking, there is no such thing.
Paimon: Huh???
Zhongli: However, I am the God of Contracts. For thousands of years, I have made countless contracts. If the deal was of no benefit, then I certainly would not be inclined to agree to it.
Zhongli: My agreement with the Cryo Archon will be the last of my contracts as the Geo Archon — my "<QEN1>contract to end all contracts.<QEN1>"
Zhongli: As for the bargaining chip that the Tsaritsa used to balance the scales...
Zhongli: Uncover that answer for yourself in your future journeys.
(If you talk to Zhongli again)
Paimon: Paimon... can't... absorb so much information at once...
Paimon: So, Zhongli, what sort of contract did you sign with the Cryo Archon? Paimon's so curious!
Zhongli: ...One of the clauses of our contract was not to divulge any of its contents.
Paimon: Ugh... You're so petty.
(After exiting Northland Bank)
After the dust settles, a date is fixed for the Rite of Parting...
Paimon: Today's the day of the Rite of Parting.
Paimon: Although the star of the show is fake, we've spent so much time trying to organize it. It would be a real shame not to go there now.
(Talk to Big-Footed Dajiao)
Big-Footed Dajiao: ...Well, since we're going through with this Rite of Parting... I guess it means that those rumors hit the nail on the head.
Wrench Wang: So Rex Lapis is really... But they didn't catch the culprit, did they?
Big-Footed Dajiao: Ah, come on, do you think that the assassin could have been a normal person? You know what I think? I don't think any of the gossip on the streets you hear from those shady types is worth anything.
Big-Footed Dajiao: There's only one real possibility in my mind. I've heard that the assassin was that Fatui fellow. Youngish, pretty high in rank — I think they called him Childe.
Wrench Wang: The Fatui? They certainly are very suspicious. Who knows what those greedy, crooked folks...
Big-Footed Dajiao: Shh! Lower your voice! If the Fatui catch you in their sights, Rex Lapis won't be around to protect you this time!
(Talk to Uncle Gao)
Uncle Gao: You know that god from the ocean couldn't have just shown up out of nowhere. I mean, it's been two thousand years since Rex Lapis subdued it.
Uncle Sun: Yes, and to think that this happened right on the heels of the incident with Rex Lapis, too...
Uncle Gao: Say, do you think the person who assassinated our Lord and released that evil god might have been one and the same?
Uncle Sun: Now that you mention it, that's very possible. Yes... it's very possible indeed.
Uncle Sun: I mean, it all fits together! That person must have colluded with the evil god to harm Rex Lapis. Ugh, that wicked, black-hearted scoundrel...
Uncle Sun: Still, what sort of supernatural prowess must this person possess to be able to do such things? I have never heard of such a person in all my years.
Uncle Gao: Ah, forget it. Guessing's no use to us. Look, the Millelith over there looks like he's about to make an announcement. Let's hear what the Ministry of Civil Affairs has to say first.
(Approach the Millelith)
Fengyan: Hear ye all the Qixing's words:
Fengyan: Though a dragon soars ageless as the mountains, it too must return to dust. This is common knowledge.
Fengyan: Gods and adepti live glorious lives, but both light and shadow have their season. So, too, must they face divinely-appointed trials.
Fengyan: Rumors and hearsay abound on the streets that Rex Lapis was murdered. Now, let the truth be revealed.
Fengyan: Having been thwarted in his trial, Rex Lapis' soul has recouped the celestial heights. He beseeches the people of Liyue to grieve not, and to let not their hearts be saddened.
Fengyan: Nor are they to believe street-borne rumors or indulge in baseless speculation.
Paimon: Ah... Um, Paimon needs a translation on what the Qixing's announcement said, (‍Traveler‍).
Icon Dialogue Talk White They said that Rex Lapis wasn't murdered.
Icon Dialogue Talk White They said that Rex Lapis died because of a divine trial.
Paimon: ...So that's how they're spinning it...
Paimon: Something feels off. Why would they suddenly give up looking for the murderer? Not to mention how this excuse sounds like something they just made up on the spot.
Paimon: Could the Qixing already have known that Rex Lapis wasn't dead? But Zhongli said that neither they nor the adepti knew anything...
Paimon: Hmm... Did Zhongli tell them in secret after his Gnosis changed hands?
Icon Dialogue Talk White That's possible.
Icon Dialogue Talk White I think you've hit the bull's-eye this time.
Paimon: Exactly, right? Ooh, seems like the Rite of Parting has been going on for a while now. Let's go have a look.
(Approach the Rite of Parting area)
Paimon: Look, it's Ningguang and Keqing. Are they saying something? Are their speeches over?
Ningguang: ...As said previously, Rex Lapis' soul returning to the heavens is the end of the contract, and it is also the end of an era.
Shitou: 3,700 years of contracts, burnt and reduced to ash...
Ningguang: We, the people of Liyue were indeed prosperous. But blinded by our prosperity, we forgot that time can be pitiless.
Ying'er: The long, unending dream of our archon walking among us...
Madame Ping: Mm...
Ningguang: Now that we have awoken from our dream, we must learn to say farewell.
Ningguang: Will you stand with us as we reestablish our contracts — as we build a new age of prosperity?
Ganyu: So concludes the words of her Eminence, the Tianquan.
Ganyu: Does Her Eminence the Yuheng have anything to add?
Paimon: Eh? Is she looking this way?
Keqing: Traveler.
Paimon: Yikes! She really is looking our way!
Crowd: Is that the traveler who they say defeated the ancient god?
Crowd: So young...
Keqing: The Liyue Qixing always repay their debts. And as you have heard, our eyes see far and our reach is long.
Keqing: Name your price. You deserve that much.
Paimon: Whoa...
(‍Traveler‍): Well... could you help me put up some missing person posters...?
Talking to the Attendees
(Talk to Shitou)
Shitou: Ah, Rex Lapis... Rex Lapis...
Shitou: Hmm. Now that I think about it, if everyone's of the same mind as me...
Shitou: Perhaps mementos for Rex Lapis might be the best short-term business opportunity...
(Talk to Ying'er)
Ying'er: Ha, and to think I'd put my best perfume on before coming here, thinking you'd like it...
Ying'er: But it seems as if those perfumes really were meant to be offered to Rex Lapis.
Ying'er: Well, that's fine. Suffer no rivals in love, they say, and that's three gone in one stroke. *chuckles*
(Talk to Madame Ping)
Madame Ping: As for the mortals and adepti of Liyue... what shape shall our relationship take from now on?
(Talk to Keqing)
Keqing: Heh. Why, you... Were you just trying to look cool earlier, or are you really that selfless?
Keqing: If you were looking for someone, you could have just told me that in private...
(Talk to Ningguang)
Ningguang: Roping you in was possibly the most masterful move we could have made. I believe that future generations will say so too, when our deeds come up for their review.
(Talk to Ganyu)
Ganyu: The clean-up of the premises, managing the crowds as they exit, making an account of the Rite... There's much that remains to be done. I didn't miss anything, did I?
(Talk to Zhongli)
Zhongli: Oh? Why are you hanging back here? Don't you want to get closer to the action?
Zhongli: You went through a lot to organize this rite, and this is a rare opportunity to see your journey bear fruit with your own eyes. You should make the most of it.
Zhongli's Farewell
(Talk to Zhongli)
Paimon: Hey, Zhongli!
Paimon: Look at this. Everyone in Liyue's caught up in their emotions, thinking that they'll never see Rex Lapis again...
Paimon: ...And here you are, looking all relaxed!
Zhongli: Hahaha. Why would I not feel more at ease after laying down the burden I have borne for 3,700 years?
Zhongli: Right, if the two of you can spare the time, I should treat you to a meal at the Xinyue Kiosk.
Paimon: Hah! That sounds like big talk, Zhongli. Paimon might have believed you if you were treating us to some Third-Round Knockout, but you'd have to pay out your nose just to stand inside Xinyue Kiosk. Are you sure you can afford it?
Zhongli: Hmm...
Zhongli: You're right, I do lack the Mora.
Icon Dialogue Talk White You've been this way this entire time, but...
Paimon: But why would Morax lack Mora?
Icon Dialogue Talk White But why would Morax lack Mora?
Zhongli: As the Rex Lapis Morax, I can easily create Mora. But since I have chosen to walk this earth as the mortal Zhongli, I should abide by the same rules that mortals do.
Zhongli: When I was journeying with you, though I still had the Gnosis in hand, I knew that I must soon retire from my role as an archon. So I had to... rehearse a little, for my new life.
Paimon: Oh, no wonder! Paimon gets it now. You didn't look at the price tags when we were spending because you've never had to.
Paimon: But since you weren't used to not being able to just make more Mora as and when you wanted to, you had to try becoming a parasite to society who lives off of other peoples' credit...
Zhongli: Well, we were only spending Fatui money. You don't have to say it like that...
Zhongli: In the city of commerce, we do not merely exchange money or goods. We also exchange knowledge, memories, and foresight, as well as positions, roles, and lives.
Zhongli: The archon Morax could never experience life as the true mortal Zhongli could, no matter how many times he descended to be with his people.
Zhongli: Haha, I must thank you for that, (‍Traveler‍).
Zhongli: I will treasure the memories that I made as Zhongli, traveling the streets of Liyue with you.
Icon Dialogue Talk White It was a fine journey.
Zhongli: That is true, but there is no journey that does not end. No meetings without partings.
Paimon: Mm... Paimon thinks that we should make a move and continue our search for The Seven.
Zhongli: I fear that continuing your journey may be difficult. The nation that neighbors Liyue by sea, Inazuma, is presently closed.
Icon Dialogue Talk White "<QEN1>Closed<QEN1>"?
Zhongli: Yes. The nation has been closed by order of its deity.
Icon Dialogue Talk White Who's the god who rules Inazuma?
Zhongli: The Electro Archon, Baal — and just as the people of Liyue preferred to call me Rex Lapis, she too goes by another name among locals in Inazuma.
Paimon: Um, Paimon thinks we've heard that one before. Uh.. Rai... Raiden?
Zhongli: That is the case. And since Raiden is also the Shogun of Inazuma, people call her the Raiden Shogun.
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Inazuma Shogunate...
Icon Dialogue Talk White The Shogun...
Paimon: That said, though people at the wharf were saying that the situation in Inazuma is very tense, Paimon doesn't remember that always being the case. It wasn't that bad last year...
Paimon: Zhongli, since you're Rex Lapis, shouldn't you know something about what's happening there? Just how did Inazuma become a closed nation?
Zhongli: It's because of Visions.
Paimon: Visions?
Zhongli: When faced with circumstances beyond their control, humans often bemoan their lack of power.
Zhongli: But if a person shows true strength of will at a desperate and fateful moment in their life, the gods will look upon them with favor.
Zhongli: This is what Visions are. Magical foci bestowed upon those who have been acknowledged by the gods.
Paimon: Uh-huh. That's how people in Teyvat see it.
Zhongli: But starting from last year, the Raiden Shogun began promulgating the "<QEN1>Vision Hunt Decree.<QEN1>"
Paimon: ...Vision Hunt Decree?
Zhongli: Yes. It was an order to seize all Visions within Inazuma's borders, and to inlay them upon the hands of the Statue of the Omnipresent God.
Paimon: They want to seize Visions? But why? Aren't Visions blessings from the gods?
Zhongli: I should think that in the Raiden Shogun's eyes, it is precisely because they are divine blessings, that they should be under the sole dominion of divinity.
Paimon: Whoa... That's harsh.
Zhongli: The Anemo Archon is the God of Freedom, and the Geo Archon is the God of Contracts. For her part, the Raiden Shogun is the God of Eternity. It seems as though she has finally decided to eliminate any unstable elements that could pose a threat to her eternal realm.
Zhongli: The fact that even I, the oldest of The Seven, have now "<QEN1>passed away<QEN1>" will only strengthen her resolve to pursue eternity.
Zhongli: Knowing her, she must have again quoted that adage she is most fond of when proclaiming that decree to her people:
Zhongli: "<QEN1>Seven ideals for seven gods, and of these, Eternity is nearest unto the Heavenly Principles.<QEN1>"
Icon Dialogue Talk White Heavenly Principles...
Zhongli: Alright, then. Was there anything else you wished to know?
Icon Dialogue Talk White So, about the "<QEN1>trial...<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Haha... Ah, that was a good one. Failing a divine trial? How they came up with that excuse, I will never know.
Zhongli: That said, the reason why the Qixing were so eager to resolve the incident and stop pursuing the culprit was indeed because they received news in secret that Rex Lapis was not dead.
Zhongli: I hinted as much to the adepti as well.
Zhongli: How did I accomplish that, you ask? Hmm... Have you ever heard of this particularly convenient adepti art known as "<QEN1>gifting dreams and visions<QEN1>"?
Icon Dialogue Talk White What about Childe...
Paimon: Yeah, about that. Before the Qixing made their announcement, we listened to a lot of people talking on the way. Most of them put the blame for everything on Childe.
Zhongli: These are indeed false accusations, but it remains undeniably true that Childe did send people to the Jade Chamber to prevent the adepti and the Qixing from defeating the ancient god.
Zhongli: I've heard that Ningguang is busy milking that for all it's worth on the foreign relations front at the moment, browbeating the envoys of the Fatui...
Zhongli: Ah, those poor Snezhnayan diplomats. If it were not for Childe's exalted position as a Harbinger, I'm certain that they would have shifted all the blame to him and called for his dismissal by now.
Icon Dialogue Talk White As for the Liyue Qixing...
Zhongli: "<QEN1>The time of the adepti has long passed. If even the Liyue Qixing don't want to face that truth, then what future is there for Liyue?<QEN1>"
Zhongli: Keqing is absolutely right in saying this.
Zhongli: Now, though I did laud Ningguang's desire for power, believing this to be a good thing, and thought as a matter of course that she must have been behind the Qixing's plan to take governing power over Liyue from the hands of the gods and adepti...
Zhongli: Could the original person who brought up the idea of seizing power have been...? Hmm...
Icon Dialogue Talk White Now, about Mora...
Paimon: That's right! Zhongli, now that you don't have your Gnosis, what's going to happen to all the Mora in Teyvat?
Paimon: Since Morax is "<QEN1>dead,<QEN1>" are they all just gonna disappear?
Paimon: Also, isn't the Golden House the only mint in the entire continent? Will it even continue to work?
Zhongli: The Mora present now will not vanish. But the Golden House will indeed have to cease operations for a lengthy period of time, since creating Mora requires the use of the Geo Archon's power.
Paimon: Argh! This is terrible. We're all about to run out of Mora! The world is coming to an end!
Zhongli: Yes, this is indeed a major issue from a financial standpoint...
Zhongli: Uh... Well. I suppose we'll just leave such troublesome matters to the Liyue Qixing to debate.
Paimon: Then... did you at least set some private funds aside for yourself?
Zhongli: Oh, a private fund? Hmm, this does seem like a good, logical, common-sense idea.
Zhongli: Ah, it's a shame...
Paimon: What's a shame?
Zhongli: It's a shame that I didn't think of it at the time.
Icon Dialogue Talk White There's nothing else...
Zhongli: Well then, I suppose you'll have to find a way to get inside this closed nation. Have patience... I suspect that some serendipity must first come into play...
